 HB 212 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0347

 04/05

 

HOUSE BILL 212

 

AN ACT relative to drug courts and alternative drug offender grant programs.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. Bershtein, Rock. 2; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17; Sen. Avard, Dist 12

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows a drug court to order an offender to participate in social work or mental health consultations as a condition of sentence completion.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0347

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to drug courts and alternative drug offender grant programs.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subparagraph; Implementation of Drug Courts; Additional Programming. Amend RSA 490-G:2, I by inserting after subparagraph (b) the following new subparagraph:

 (c) In addition to the components set forth in subparagraph (b), the drug court may, as a condition of sentence completion, order an offender to participate in social work or mental health consultations, including any follow-up consultations deemed necessary by the social work or mental health professional. A county operating a drug court that establishes such social work or mental health referrals shall be eligible for funding under the statewide drug offender grant program pursuant to RSA 490-G:4.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

