 HB 221 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0205

 05/08

 

HOUSE BILL 221

 

AN ACT making the state vaccine registry an opt-in program.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Nunez, Hills. 37; Rep. Rice, Hills. 37; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15; Rep. Harvey-Bolia, Belk. 4; Rep. Notter, Hills. 21; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Bordes, Belk. 3; Rep. Pauer, Hills. 26; Sen. Avard, Dist 12; Rep. Trottier, Belk. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes the state immunization registry an opt-in program rather than an opt-out program.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0205

 05/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT making the state vaccine registry an opt-in program.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Communicable Disease; Immunization Registry; Opportunity to Opt-In to the Registry. Amend RSA 141-C:20-f by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:

 II-a. Each patient, or the patient's parent or guardian if the patient is a minor, shall be given the opportunity to opt-in to the immunization registry. No patient’s immunization or vaccination information shall be entered into the registry without the explicit, written, opt-in consent of the patient, or the patient’s parent or guardian.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

