 HB 169 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0114

 10/06

 

HOUSE BILL 169

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the removal of unused utility poles following the transition of equipment, lines, and cables to new utility poles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Grote, Rock. 24; Rep. Maggiore, Rock. 22; Rep. K. Murray, Rock. 24; Rep. Cannon, Straf. 18; Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Sen. Sherman, Dist 24

 

COMMITTEE: Public Works and Highways

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a commission to study the removal of unused utility poles following the transition of equipment, lines, and cables to new utility poles.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0114

 10/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the removal of unused utility poles following the transition of equipment, lines, and cables to new utility poles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Commission to Study the Removal of Unused Utility Poles Following the Transition of Equipment, Lines, and Cables to New Utility Poles. Amend RSA 231 by inserting after section 182 the following new section:

 231:182-a Commission to Study the Removal of Unused Utility Poles Following the Transition of Equipment, Lines, and Cables to New Utility Poles. 

 I. There is established a commission to study the removal of unused utility poles following the transition of equipment, lines, and cables to new utility poles.

 (a) The members of the commission shall be as follows:

 (1) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. 

 (2) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (3) The commissioner of the department of transportation, or designee.

 (4) The chairperson of the public utilities commission, or designee

 (5) One member appointed by the New Hampshire Municipal Association.

 (6) Additional members from the following entities, appointed by the governor, as follows:

 (A) Two members representing different companies owning poles in New Hampshire who are members of the New Hampshire Telephone Association (NHTA).

 (B) One member from a New Hampshire electric cooperative.

 (C) One member from an investor-owned New Hampshire electric utility.

 (D) One member each from a competitive telephone utility and a provider of cellular telephone service, which are currently attached to poles in New Hampshire.

 (E) One member representing the New England Cable & Telecommunications Association, Inc. (NECTA).

 (b) Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 II. The commission's study shall include, but not be limited to, examining the rules of the public utilities commission in PUC 1300 – Utility Pole Attachments, with emphasis on relevant sections of PUC 1303.06 on Notification, PUC 1303.07 on Installation and Maintenance, and PUC 1303.12 on Make Ready Work Timetables, and how to update the relevant laws and rules as necessary and make recommendations for enforcement of timely transition of equipment and removal of unused utility poles. 

 III. The commission may solicit input from any person or entity the commission deems relevant to its study.

 IV. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Six members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.

 V. The commission shall submit a report including its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation on or before December 1, 2021 to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library.

 2 Repeal. RSA 231:182-a, relative to a commission to study the transition of equipment and removal or replacement of telephone and electric poles, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date.

 I. Section 2 of this act shall take effect December 1, 2021.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

