 HB 72 - AS INTRODUCED

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0031

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 72

 

AN ACT relative to ratification of amendments to the state building code and state fire code.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. McWilliams, Merr. 27; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2; Rep. Edwards, Rock. 4; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Ankarberg, Straf. 10; Rep. DeLemus, Straf. 24; Rep. Mason, Merr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill ratifies certain amendments to the state building code and state fire code adopted by the fire marshal and state building code review board in 2015, 2016, 2019, and 2020.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0031

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to ratification of amendments to the state building code and state fire code.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 State Building Code; Ratification of Amendments. Pursuant to RSA 155-A:10, IV(b), the general court hereby ratifies the amendments to the state building code, as defined in RSA 155-A:1, approved by the state building code review board from July 10, 2015 through March 11, 2016 and from March 8, 2019 through November 8, 2019, in administrative rules Bcr 300; with the exception of state building code review board Exhibits RE-15-35-18 and RE-15-36-18, which shall not take effect. Further provided that the following amendments shall expire as provided in 2019, 250:4:

 I. RE-15-33-18, an amendment to International Residential Code (IRC) 2015, table N1102.1.2, relative to climate zone 6, wood frame wall r-value.

 II. RE-15-37-18, an amendment to IRC 2015, section N1101.5, relative to information on construction documents.

 III. RE-15-39-18, an amendment to IRC 2015, section N1102.1, relative to the building thermal envelope. 

 IV. RE-15-40-18, an amendment to IRC 2015, section N1102.4.1.2, relative to testing. 

 V. RE-15-42-18, an amendment to IRC 2015, section N1103.6, relative to mechanical ventilation.

 VI. RE-15-43-18, an amendment to IRC 2015, table N1102.1.2, relative to insulation and fenestration requirements by component. 

 2 State Fire Code; Ratification of Amendments. Pursuant to RSA 153:5, the general court hereby ratifies the amendments to the state fire code adopted by the state fire marshal and the state board of fire control on January 15, 2020.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage. 

