 HB 182 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0266

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 182

 

AN ACT relative to approval of coursework completed at other approved schools.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. M. Moffett, Merr. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the principal or other administrator of a high school to grant credit for courses and programs completed at other approved schools.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0266

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to approval of coursework completed at other approved schools.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Adequate Public Education; Approval of Courses and Programs. Amend RSA 193-E by inserting after section 3-e the following new section:

 193-E:3-f Approval of Courses and Programs. The principal or other administrator of a high school shall grant credit toward high school graduation for courses and programs completed at other approved schools. For purposes of this section, approved schools include all New Hampshire public schools, including chartered public schools, public academies, approved public or private tuition program schools, and all schools in Vermont and Maine that are members of an interstate school district with schools in New Hampshire.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

