 HB 184 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0048

 08/10

 

HOUSE BILL 184

 

AN ACT relative to the operation of personal water craft around the marshlands or flats of the Rye estuary and the New Castle back channel.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. K. Murray, Rock. 24

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits the operation of personal water craft within 300 feet of any marsh land or flat of the Rye estuary and the New Castle back channel.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0048

 08/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the operation of personal water craft around the marshlands or flats of the Rye estuary and the New Castle back channel.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Personal Water Craft. Amend RSA 270:74-c, II to read as follows:

 II. No person shall operate a personal water craft within 300 feet of any marsh land or flat in the Hampton/Seabrook estuary, within 300 feet of the Rye marsh areas to include Witch Creek, Seavey Creek, Berry's Brook, Parson's Creek, Awcomin Marsh, and Rye Harbor Marsh, or within the New Castle Goat Island Back Channel Mooring Field as defined in rules adopted by the Pease Development Authority Pda 500, or that area marked between Shapleigh Island and Goat Island to Red Nun #4 to the Wentworth Bridge, to include the areas around Pest, Leaches, and Clampit Islands, without regard to tide height. This paragraph shall not apply to water craft operated by police, fire, or other emergency services.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

