 HB 70 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0025

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 70

 

AN ACT authorizing certification for the microblading of eyebrows.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows certain persons who are not licensed for tattooing as body art practitioners to perform microblading of eyebrows.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0025

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT authorizing certification for the microblading of eyebrows.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Body Art; Microblading. Amend RSA 314-A:2 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. It shall be unlawful for any person who is not licensed under this chapter to perform the microblading of eyebrows, unless such person has a current license to practice as a cosmetologist or an esthetician under RSA 313-A and has been issued a certificate for microblading eyebrows pursuant to rules adopted by the executive director.

 2 New Paragraph; Body Art; Rulemaking. Amend RSA 314-A:6 by inserting after paragraph V the following new paragraph:

 VI. Requirements to obtain and renew a certificate for microblading eyebrows including:

 (a) Application forms and approval of microblading courses.

 (b) Standards of hygiene for performing microblading.

 (c) Procedures for disciplinary action including suspension, limitation, or revocation of a microblading certificate.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

