 HB 110 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0077

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 110

 

AN ACT relative to the distribution of adequate education grants.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Baldasaro, Rock. 5; Rep. Love, Rock. 6; Rep. Potucek, Rock. 6; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3; Rep. D. Thomas, Rock. 5; Rep. Greene, Hills. 37; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Sen. Ward, Dist 8

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the department of education to distribute adequate education grants to municipalities and requires such municipalities to transfer the grants to their school district or districts.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0077

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the distribution of adequate education grants.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Education Trust Fund; Distribution of Adequate Education Grants. Amend RSA 198:42 to read as follows:

 198:42 Distribution Schedule of Adequate Education Grants; Appropriation. 

 I. The adequate education grant determined in RSA 198:41 shall be distributed to each [municipality's school district or districts] municipality from the education trust fund in 4 payments of 20 percent on September 1, 20 percent on November 1, 30 percent on January 1, and 30 percent on April 1 of each school year[; provided that for a dependent school district, the grant determined in RSA 198:41 shall be distributed to the municipality, which]. Each such municipality shall appropriate and transfer the grant funds to its [dependent] school [department] district or districts. 

 II. For the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2005, and every fiscal year thereafter, the amount necessary to fund the grants under RSA 198:41 is hereby appropriated to the department from the education trust fund created under RSA 198:39. The governor is authorized to draw a warrant from the education trust fund to satisfy the state's obligation under this section. Such warrant for payment shall be issued regardless of the balance of funds available in the education trust fund. If the balance in the education trust fund, after the issuance of any such warrant, is less than zero, the comptroller shall transfer sufficient funds from the general fund to eliminate such deficit. The commissioner of the department of administrative services shall inform the fiscal committee and the governor and council of such balance. This reporting shall not in any way prohibit or delay the distribution of adequate education grants. 

 III. The department of education shall certify the amount of each grant to the state treasurer and direct the payment thereof to the [school district or] municipality. 

 2 Education Trust Fund. Amend RSA 198:39, I to read as follows:

 I. The state treasurer shall establish an education trust fund in the treasury. Moneys in such fund shall not be used for any purpose other than to distribute adequate education grants to [municipalities' school districts] municipalities and to approved charter schools pursuant to RSA 198:42, to provide low and moderate income homeowners property tax relief under RSA 198:56-198:61, and to fund kindergarten programs as may be determined by the general court. The state treasurer shall deposit into this fund immediately upon receipt: 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

