 HB 198 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0397

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 198

 

AN ACT relative to an exception to the opportunity for public education without discrimination.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Notter, Hills. 21; Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. M. Pearson, Rock. 34; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill excepts biological males by birth from the provision that no person may be excluded from participation in public schools as that provision applies to participation in all-female athletics.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0397

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to an exception to the opportunity for public education without discrimination.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Opportunity for Public Education Without Discrimination; Exception. Amend RSA 354-A by inserting after section 28 the following new section:

 354-A:29 Exception. 

 I. The provisions of RSA 354-A:27 relating to opportunity for public education without discrimination of a civil right shall not apply to a biological male by birth participating in all-female high school and postsecondary sports recognizing the physiological differences between the biological sexes in athletics. These differences limiting athletic teams to sex specific biological teams ensure that biological females have equal athletic opportunities. 

 II. High school and postsecondary athletic teams or sports designated for females, women, or girls based upon biological birth shall not be open to students of biological male birth gender. Single-sex athletics is rooted in the reality of biological differences between the sexes and is rooted in objective biological fact and fairness. Separate sex-specific teams further efforts to promote sex equality and fairness in keeping with the intent and purpose of the 1972 Title IX Law. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

