 HB 69 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0028

 06/10

 

HOUSE BILL 69

 

AN ACT relative to the display of the national motto in schools.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Greene, Hills. 37; Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Hobson, Rock. 35; Rep. Folsom, Graf. 11

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits school boards to provide copies of the national motto of the United States for display in each school building in the district.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0028

 06/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the display of the national motto in schools.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; State Motto. Amend RSA 189 by inserting after section 17-a the following new section:

 189:17-b State Motto. 

 I. To the extent funds are available, a school board may provide a durable poster or framed copy of the national motto of the United States, "In God We Trust" for display in each school building in the district. A school board may accept nonpublic funds or in-kind contributions to implement this section.

 II. In the event the display of the national motto is challenged in court, the office of the attorney general shall defend the display. The school and the school board shall be held harmless for complying with this section.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

