 HB 228 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0236

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 228

 

AN ACT relative to the calculation of child support in cases with equal or approximately equal parenting time.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. DeSimone, Rock. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides a formula for the calculation of child support in cases with equal or approximately equal parenting time.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0236

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the calculation of child support in cases with equal or approximately equal parenting time.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Child Support Guidelines; Adjustment to the Application of the Guidelines Under Special Circumstances; Equal Parenting Time. Amend RSA 458-C:5 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:

 III. In the event of a disparity of income between the parties, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that where the parties have agreed, or the court finds the parties have equal or approximately equal periods of parenting time for the child or children for which a child support order shall be applicable, child support shall be equalized and allocated in the following manner:

 (a) The child support guidelines shall be calculated based on each party's income and a child support amount shall be determined.

 (b) The amount of the child support payment shall then be calculated according to the guidelines as if the higher income party were to pay the lower income party, and then calculated as if the lower income party were to pay the higher income party. The difference between the amounts shall be the presumptive child support obligation and paid to the party with the lower income. This amount shall become the presumptive child support order.

 (c) Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude a court from modification of the presumptive child support order such as justice and the best interest of the child may require. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

