 HB 155 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0131

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 155

 

AN ACT renaming Columbus Day as Indigenous People's Day.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6; Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Amanda Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Vail, Hills. 30; Rep. Kenney, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill renames Columbus Day as Indigenous People's Day for the purpose of state holidays.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0131

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT renaming Columbus Day as Indigenous People's Day.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Findings and Intent. It is the intent of the general court that Indigenous People's Day serve as a time for New Hampshire residents to reflect on the continuing struggles of the indigenous peoples of the Americas, including the Abenaki (also known as People of the Dawnland), who inhabited what is now known as New Hampshire for thousands of years before English settlers arrived in the 1620s. 

 2 Holidays. Amend RSA 288:1 to read as follows:

 288:1 Holidays. January 1; the third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr. Civil Rights Day; the third Monday in February, known as Washington's Birthday; the last Monday in May, known as Memorial Day or, on a date to coincide with the federal observance if it is held on a different day; July 4, known as Independence Day; the first Monday in September, known as Labor Day; the second Monday in October, known as [Columbus Day] Indigenous People's Day; the day on which the biennial election is held; November 11, known as Veterans Day; Thanksgiving Day, whenever appointed; and Christmas Day are legal holidays.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

