 HB 88 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0098

 06/04

 

HOUSE BILL 88

 

AN ACT relative to the city of Claremont police commission.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. O'Hearne, Sull. 3; Rep. Merchant, Sull. 4; Rep. Stapleton, Sull. 5; Rep. Cloutier, Sull. 10

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that the city council of Claremont shall appoint the police commission.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0098

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the city of Claremont police commission.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Claremont; Appointment of Police Commission. Amend 1947, 342:1 as amended by 1963, 275:9 as amended by 1973, 382:1 to read as follows:

 1. Establishment. The city [manager] council of the city of Claremont shall appoint for said city a police commission consisting of three persons. The term of office of said commissioners shall be for three years and until their successors are appointed. Said commissioners shall have been residents of Claremont for at least five years immediately preceding the date of their appointment. Not more than two of said commissioners shall be of the same political party. Any vacancy on said commission shall be filled in like manner for the unexpired term.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

