 HB 203 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0394

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 203

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study school meal programs in New Hampshire's public schools and non-sectarian schools that accept public funds.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study school meal programs in New Hampshire's public schools and nonsectarian schools that accept public funds.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0394

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study school meal programs in New Hampshire's public schools and non-sectarian schools that accept public funds.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study school meal programs in New Hampshire's public schools and non-sectarian schools that accept public funds.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate. 

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 3 Duties. The committee shall:

 I. Examine existing state and federal laws and regulations regarding school meal programs.

 II. Work with the department of education, to determine how school meal programs are being implemented in New Hampshire. 

 III. Identify potential legislation intended to reduce student hunger among students whose families meet the federal income eligibility guidelines.

 IV. Work with other state agencies, as needed.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

