 HB 159-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0317

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 159-FN

 

AN ACT relative to organizations authorized to issue decals for multi-use decal number plates.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ulery, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits the New Hampshire State Council of the Knights of Columbus to issue decals for multi-use plates.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0317

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to organizations authorized to issue decals for multi-use decal number plates.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Motor Vehicles; Multi-Use Decal Plates. Amend RSA 261-B:9 by inserting after paragraph XV the following new paragraph:

 XVI. The New Hampshire State Council of the Knights of Columbus.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0317

 12/8/20

 

HB 159-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to organizations authorized to issue decals for multi-use decal number plates.

 

FISCAL IMPACT:

 The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation, as introduced, has a total fiscal impact of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

 Department of Safety

 

