 CACR 5 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0140

 06/10

 

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 5

 

RELATING TO: New Hampshire general court. 

 

PROVIDING THAT: the provision for compensation of legislators is removed.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McWilliams, Merr. 27; Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This constitutional amendment concurrent resolution removes the provision for compensation of the legislature. Legislators may still receive mileage for daily attendance.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type

 

 21-0140

 06/10

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION PROPOSING CONSITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

 

RELATING TO: New Hampshire general court.

 

PROVIDING THAT: the provision for compensation of legislators is removed.

 

 

Be it Resolved by the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring, that the

Constitution of New Hampshire be amended as follows:

 

 I. That article 15 of the second part of the constitution be amended to read as follows:

 [Art.] 15. [[Compensation of the] Legislature[.]; Mileage for Attendance.] [The presiding officers of both houses of the legislature, shall severally receive out of the state treasury as compensation in full for their services for the term elected the sum of $250, and] All [other] members [thereof] of both houses of the legislature, seasonably attending and not departing without license, [the sum of $200 and each member] shall receive mileage for actual daily attendance on legislative days, but not after the legislature shall have been in session for 45 legislative days or after the first day of July following the annual assembly of the legislature, whichever occurs first; provided, however, that, when a special session shall be called by the governor or by a 2/3 vote of the then qualified members of each branch of the general court, such officers and members shall receive for attendance [an additional compensation of $3 per day for a period not exceeding 15 days and] the usual mileage. Nothing herein shall prevent the payment of additional mileage to members attending committee meetings or on other legislative business on nonlegislative days.

 II. That the above amendment proposed to the constitution be submitted to the qualified voters of the state at the state general election to be held in November, 2022.

 III. That the selectmen of all towns, cities, wards and places in the state are directed to insert in their warrants for the said 2022 election an article to the following effect: To decide whether the amendments of the constitution proposed by the 2021 session of the general court shall be approved.

 IV. That the wording of the question put to the qualified voters shall be:

"Are you in favor of amending article 15 of the constitution to read as follows:

 [Art.] 15. [Legislature; Mileage for Attendance.] All members of both houses of the legislature, seasonably attending and not departing without license, shall receive mileage for actual daily attendance on legislative days, but not after the legislature shall have been in session for 45 legislative days or after the first day of July following the annual assembly of the legislature, whichever occurs first; provided, however, that, when a special session shall be called by the governor or by a 2/3 vote of the then qualified members of each branch of the general court, such officers and members shall receive for attendance the usual mileage. Nothing herein shall prevent the payment of additional mileage to members attending committee meetings or on other legislative business on nonlegislative days."

 V. That the secretary of state shall print the question to be submitted on a separate ballot or on the same ballot with other constitutional questions. The ballot containing the question shall include 2 squares next to the question allowing the voter to vote “Yes” or “No.” If no cross is made in either of the squares, the ballot shall not be counted on the question. The outside of the ballot shall be the same as the regular official ballot except that the words “Questions Relating to Constitutional Amendments proposed by the 2021 General Court” shall be printed in bold type at the top of the ballot.

 VI. That if the proposed amendment is approved by 2/3 of those voting on the amendment, it becomes effective when the governor proclaims its adoption.

 VII. Voters' Guide.

 AT THE PRESENT TIME, article 15 of the New Hampshire constitution provides for compensation and mileage for members of both houses of the legislature.

 IF THE AMENDMENT IS ADOPTED, there will be no provision in the constitution for compensation of legislators. The provision granting mileage will remain in effect.

