 HB 96-FN-A - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0061

 06/10

 

HOUSE BILL 96-FN-A

 

AN ACT establishing the office of school counseling and psychology, establishing the position of school counselor coordinator, and making an appropriation therefor.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Cornell, Hills. 18; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. Ellison, Merr. 27; Rep. Woodcock, Carr. 2; Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Heath, Hills. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes the office of school counseling and psychology in the division of learner support, department of education. This bill also establishes the position of school counselor coordinator in the office of school counseling and psychology and makes an appropriation therefor.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0061

 06/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing the office of school counseling and psychology, establishing the position of school counselor coordinator, and making an appropriation therefor.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Department of Education; Office of School Counseling and Psychology Established; New Position; School Counselor Coordinator. Amend RSA 21-N by inserting after section 6-a the following new section:

 21-N:6-b Office of School Counseling and Psychology; School Counselor Coordinator. 

 I. There is established in the division of learner support, department of education, the office of school counseling and psychology. 

 II. There is established within the office of school counseling and psychology the position of school counselor coordinator who shall be a classified employee. The school counselor coordinator shall be certified as a school guidance counselor or school psychologist by the state board of education and shall be qualified to hold such position by reason of education and experience. The position shall be subject to any other employment requirements as determined by the department. The school counselor coordinator shall coordinate and provide assistance to guidance counselors, career counselors, school psychologists, and school social workers. The school counselor coordinator shall assist schools and districts in developing counseling programs and shall work with school counselors, the bureau of career development, representatives of postsecondary education, and New Hampshire's workforce business leaders to better provide students with an awareness of career pathway opportunities and career readiness training needed in the 21st century workplace.

 2 Appropriation. The sum of $118,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2022, and the sum of $119,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2023 are hereby appropriated to the department of education, division of learner support, for the position of school counselor coordinator established in RSA 21-N:6-b. The governor is authorized to draw a warrant for said sums out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

 

LBA

 21-0061

 11/16/20

 

HB 96-FN-A- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT establishing the office of school counseling and psychology, establishing the position of school counselor coordinator, and making an appropriation therefor.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$118,000

$119,000

$0

   Revenue

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Expenditures

$0

$118,000

$119,000

$123,000

  Funding Source:

 [ X ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ ] Other 

   

METHODOLOGY:

This bill establishes the office of school counseling and psychology, establishes the position of school counselor coordinator, and appropriates $118,000 in FY 2022 and $119,000 in FY 2023 to the Department of Education for the purpose of this bill. The Department anticipates this position would be established as a classified labor grade 27 (step 5). Assuming a start date of July 1, 2021, salary and benefit costs are estimated to be approximately $101,000 in FY 2022, $102,000 in FY 2023, and $106,000 in FY 2023. In addition, the Department estimates approximately $17,000 per year in additional expenses (supplies, equipment, etc…).

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Education

 

