 HB 177 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0258

 08/05

 

HOUSE BILL 177

 

AN ACT prohibiting the siting of a landfill near a state park.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Tucker, Coos 5; Rep. Egan, Graf. 2; Rep. Hatch, Coos 6; Rep. Thompson, Coos 1; Rep. Laflamme, Coos 3; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1

 

COMMITTEE: Environment and Agriculture

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits the siting of new landfills, excluding expansions of existing landfills, near state parks. This bill also defines state parks for the purposes of prohibiting the siting of new landfills.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0258

 08/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting the siting of a landfill near a state park.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Permit Prohibited Near Certain Parks and Forest Lands. Amend RSA 149-M:9 by inserting after paragraph XIV the following new paragraph:

 XV. No permit shall be issued by the department for the siting of a new landfill, other than on property owned by the state, one or more municipalities, or a solid waste management district, if any part of the actual solid waste disposal area is proposed to be located within 2 miles of the boundary of any state park. For purposes of this paragraph, “state park” means any state park managed by the state director of the division of parks and recreation pursuant to RSA 216-A:2. “State park” shall not include the state historic sites and recreational rail trails. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the expansion of any existing landfills. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

