 HB 170 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0117

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 170

 

AN ACT commemorating the first labor strike in the United States by women.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. Levesque, Straf. 4; Rep. Toll, Ches. 16; Rep. Oxaal, Straf. 15; Rep. Chase, Straf. 18; Rep. Frost, Straf. 16; Rep. Fargo, Straf. 14; Rep. Bixby, Straf. 17

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill proclaims a yearly commemoration of the first labor strike in the United States by women in Dover.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0117

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT commemorating the first labor strike in the United States by women.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Observances Proclaimed by the Governor; Commemoration of the First Labor Strike By Women in the United States Recognition Day. Amend RSA 4 by inserting after section 4:13-cc the following new section:

 4:13-dd The Dover Mill Girls Recognition Day. The governor shall annually issue a proclamation calling for a proper observance of December 30 in recognition of the first all-women labor strike in the state of New Hampshire, which took place over 3 days in Dover, starting December 26, 1828. This was a seminal event in United States history for both labor and women's rights movements. Schools and libraries are encouraged to commemorate the day with appropriate ceremonies and activities as close to the date as possible. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

