 HB 185-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0203

 08/10

 

HOUSE BILL 185-FN

 

AN ACT removing the work requirement of the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Schapiro, Ches. 16; Rep. Salloway, Straf. 5; Rep. Knirk, Carr. 3; Rep. Schultz, Merr. 18; Rep. McWilliams, Merr. 27; Sen. Rosenwald, Dist 13

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill removes the work and community engagement requirements of the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0203

 08/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT removing the work requirement of the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Repeal. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 126-AA:2, I(h), relative to savings generated as a result of individuals disenrolled in the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program for failing to meet the work requirements.

 II. RSA 126-AA:2, III-IV, relative to the work and community engagement requirements under the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 III. RSA 126-AA:4, II(a)(9), relative to a certain duty of the commission to evaluate the effectiveness and future of the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 IV. RSA 126-AA:4, II(d), relative to making a certain recommendation relative to the work and community engagement requirement.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0203

 12/16/20

 

HB 185-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT removing the work requirement of the New Hampshire granite advantage health care program.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Expenditures

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

  Funding Source:

 [ ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ X ] Other - Revenues deposited into the NH Granite Advantage Health Care Trust Fund 

   

 

 

 

 

  METHODOLOGY:

This bill removes the work and community engagement requirements from the New Hampshire Granite Advantage Health Care Program established in RSA 126-AA. The Department of Health and Human Services states that the bill's fiscal impact is indeterminable, as the Department is currently prohibited from implementing the existing requirement due to a legal order issued by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on July 29, 2019. 

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Health and Human Services

 

