 HB 137 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0221

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 137

 

AN ACT relative to the rulemaking authority of the department of information technology.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. L. Ober, Hills. 37; Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Rep. Emerick, Rock. 21; Sen. Carson, Dist 14

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill exempts certain statewide standards and protocols relative to information technology, networks, telephony, and cyber security developed by the department of information technology from rulemaking under RSA 541-A.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0221

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the rulemaking authority of the department of information technology.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Department of Information Technology; Duties of the Commissioner. Amend RSA 21-R:4, XVIII to read as follows:

 XVIII. Establishing as necessary, after consultation with the information technology council, established under RSA 21-R:6, statewide standards and protocols for information technology, networks, telephony, and cyber security, which shall not be subject to the rulemaking requirements under RSA 541-A and shall be adhered to by all executive branch agencies unless granted a waiver by the commissioner. 

 2 Administrative Procedure Act; Exemptions; Standards and Protocols of the Department of Information Technology. RSA 541-A:21, I(gg) is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 (gg) Statewide standards and protocols developed by the department of information technology in consultation with the information technology council, including those adopted pursuant to RSA 21-R:4, XVIII, relative to information technology, networks, telephony, and cyber security within executive branch agencies.

 3 Repeal. RSA 21-R:4, XX, relative to development of a telephony services manual by the department of information technology, is repealed.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

