 HB 157 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0242

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 157

 

AN ACT repealing the state health assessment and state health improvement plan council.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Edwards, Rock. 4; Rep. M. Pearson, Rock. 34

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill repeals the state health improvement plan and the state health improvement plan advisory council.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0242

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT repealing the state health assessment and state health improvement plan council.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Statement of Intent. The general court finds that Section 501(r)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code requires community hospitals to do a community needs assessment every 3 years, and the stated intent of the state health assessment is entirely duplicative of the collective effort of New Hampshire’s 26 acute care hospitals in this regard. The general court also finds the state health improvement plan would undo the good work of SB 481 (2016), which repealed certificate of need in New Hampshire, removing state government from health care planning, and allowing increased competition to reduce health care costs in New Hampshire. The general court therefore repeals the following statutes.

 2 Repeal. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 126-A:87, relative to the state health improvement plan.

 II. RSA 126-A:88, relative to the state health assessment and state health improvement plan advisory council.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage. 

