 HB 181 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0345

 08/10

 

HOUSE BILL 181

 

AN ACT relative to the local option for operation of sports book retail locations.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. O'Brien, Hills. 36; Rep. Telerski, Hills. 35; Rep. Cote, Hills. 31; Sen. Rosenwald, Dist 13

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows a vote for accepting operation of sports book retail locations by a city at the state primary election.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0345

 08/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the local option for operation of sports book retail locations.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Local Option for Operation of Sports Book Retail Locations. Amend RSA 287-I:6, III to read as follows:

 III. If the question is not approved, the question may later be voted upon according to the provisions of paragraph I at the next annual town meeting or regular municipal election. A city with biennial elections may conduct a vote on the question in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I at the September state primary election.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

