 HB 193 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0302

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 193

 

AN ACT relative to penalties for improper timber harvesting.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Suzanne Smith, Graf. 8; Rep. Weston, Graf. 8; Rep. Gordon, Graf. 9; Rep. Gould, Hills. 7; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that any person who negligently or recklessly causes timber to be cut on the land of another shall be guilty of trespass under RSA 227-J, relative to timber harvesting.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0302

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to penalties for improper timber harvesting.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Timber Harvesting; Trespass; Civil Penalty. Amend RSA 227-J:8, I to read as follows:

 I. No person shall negligently cut, fell, destroy, injure, or carry away, or cause to be cut, felled, destroyed, injured, or carried away, any tree, timber, log, wood, pole, underwood, or bark which is on the land of another person, or aid in such actions without the permission of that person or the person's agent. 

 2 Timber Harvesting; Trespass; Criminal Penalty. Amend RSA 227-J:8-a, I to read as follows: 

 I. No person shall recklessly cut, fell, destroy, injure, or carry away, or cause to be cut, felled, destroyed, injured, or carried away, any tree, timber, log, wood, pole, underwood, or bark which is on the land of another person, or aid in such actions without the permission of that person or the person's agent. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

