 HB 223 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0231

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 223

 

AN ACT relative to political party access to a list of absentee ballot requests.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. J. Sweeney, Rock. 8; Rep. Alexander Jr., Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill authorizes political parties to request and subscribe to the absentee ballot request list from the secretary of state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0231

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to political party access to a list of absentee ballot requests.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Political Party Access to List of Absentee Voter Applicants. Amend RSA 657:15 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 III-a. Political parties and persons bearing a notarized request from political parties may obtain a statewide list of absentee voter applicants, excluding voters who have presented to the supervisors of the checklist valid protective orders pursuant to RSA 173-B, from the secretary of state. Information on the statewide absentee voter list shall be limited to voter name, voter ID number, and the date the absentee ballot was requested.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

