 HB 134 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0103

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 134

 

AN ACT repealing certain inactive dedicated funds.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Major, Rock. 14; Rep. Almy, Graf. 13; Rep. Weber, Ches. 1; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill deletes certain inactive dedicated funds and adds others to the list of dedicated funds in RSA 6:12. The bill also changes the reporting year for the office of professional licensure and certification.

 

The bill is a request of the joint committee on dedicated funds established pursuant to RSA 6:12-i.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0103

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT repealing certain inactive dedicated funds.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Repeal; Inactive Dedicated Funds. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 6:12, I(b)(229), relative to moneys received by the postsecondary education commission for storage and retrieval of closed school transcripts under RSA 292:8-kk, II.

 II. RSA 6:12, I(b)(230), relative to the public interest payphone fund under RSA 374:22-q.

 III. RSA 6:12, I(b)(305), relative to the meat inspection program fund under RSA 427:32-b.

 IV. RSA 6:12, I(b)(327), relative to the John G. Winant memorial special account under RSA 4:9-l.

 2 New Subparagraphs; Dedicated Funds Added. Amend RSA 6:12, I(b) by inserting after subparagraph (364) the following new subparagraphs:

 (365) Moneys deposited in the forest improvement fund under RSA 227-G:5, II.

 (366) Moneys deposited in the forest protection personnel training fund under RSA 227-G:5, III.

 3 Alcohol Abuse Prevention and Treatment Fund. Amend RSA 6:12, I(b)(72) to read as follows:

 (72) Moneys deposited in the alcohol abuse prevention and treatment fund established in RSA 176-A:1, as administered by the governor’s commission on alcohol and drug abuse prevention, treatment, and recovery in accordance with RSA 12-J:1. 

 4 Repeal; Public Interest Payphones. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 374:22-q, relative to the public interest payphone fund.

 II. RSA 471-C:8, IV, relative to public interest payphone deposits.

 5 Public Interest Payphones Abandoned Property; Filing of Claim. Amend RSA 471-C:26, I(b) to read as follows:

 (b) A person claiming an abandoned utility deposit or any other abandoned property under the provisions of RSA 471-C:8 that was not deposited with the administrator pursuant to RSA 471-C:8, II or IV, may file a claim on a form prescribed by the administrator and verified by the claimant. Any claim paid by the administrator under this paragraph, shall be reimbursable by the utility company which originally reported the property as abandoned [or the public interest payphone fund established under RSA 374:22-q. The utility company or the public interest payphone fund shall remit such payment upon notification of the claim by the administrator]. 

 6 Balance of Public Interest Payphone Fund; Lapse to Public Utilities Commission. On the effective date of this section, the balance of the public interest payphone fund, established in RSA 374:22-q, shall lapse to the public utilities commission.

 7 Repeal; Meat Inspection Fund. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 427:3, II, relative to the meat inspection fund.

 II. RSA 427:32-a, relative to the acceptance of gifts, grants, and donations for the inspection of meat.

 III. RSA 427:32-b, establishing the meat inspection fund. 

 8 Meat Inspectors; Certification and Duties; Reference to Fund Removed. Amend RSA 427:14, II to read as follows:

 II. Fees, fines, and administrative charges established for the certification program and the auditing program shall be deposited in the [meat inspection fund established pursuant to RSA 427:32-b] general fund. 

 9 John G. Winant Memorial Special Account. Amend RSA 4:9-l to read as follows:

 4:9-l Commission Established[; Special Account]. 

 I. A commission is established to oversee the location, design, construction, and maintenance of a John G. Winant memorial and to privately raise and expend all the funds necessary for its construction and maintenance. [The governor is authorized to accept for the commission, in the name of the state, the gifts of money, which are donated to construct and maintain the memorial.] Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the commission may accept donated in-kind services, goods, and materials for the construction and maintenance of the memorial without governor and council approval. 

 II. [The gifts of money, which are donated to contract, construct, and maintain the memorial, shall be placed in a special nonlapsing account in the state treasury, to be expended for the purposes of the John G. Winant memorial. Any money remaining in the special account after construction of the memorial is completed shall be used for the care, maintenance, repair, and additions to the memorial, or for any other purpose deemed appropriate by the commission. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the commission may expend the money raised or accepted as a gift without the approval of governor and council, to contract for the construction and perpetual maintenance of the memorial. 

 III.] The commission shall remain in existence upon the completion of the John G. Winant memorial for the purpose of overseeing maintenance and approving any change to the memorial. Any site change for the memorial shall be made under the supervision of the director of operations of the department of transportation. 

 10 Repeal; Office of Professional Licensure and Certification. RSA 6:12-j, V(d)(8), relative to the year 4 reporting requirement for the office of professional licensure and certification, is repealed.

 11 New Subparagraph; Office of Professional Licensure and Certification; Year 5 Dedicated Fund Reporting Requirement. Amend RSA 6:12-j, V(e) by inserting after subparagraph (4) the following new subparagraph:

 (5) The office of professional licensure and certification.

 12 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

