 HB 89-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0084

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 89-FN

 

AN ACT adding qualifying medical conditions to the therapeutic use of cannabis law.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Vail, Hills. 30; Rep. Chase, Straf. 18; Rep. Laflamme, Coos 3; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds moderate to severe insomnia to the definition of "qualifying medical condition" for the purposes of the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes law.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0084

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT adding qualifying medical conditions to the therapeutic use of cannabis law.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Use of Cannabis for Therapeutic Purposes; Definitions. Amend RSA 126-X:1, IX(a)(2) to read as follows:

 (2) A severely debilitating or terminal medical condition or its treatment that has produced at least one of the following: elevated intraocular pressure, cachexia, chemotherapy-induced anorexia, wasting syndrome, agitation of Alzheimer's disease, severe pain that has not responded to previously prescribed medication or surgical measures or for which other treatment options produced serious side effects, constant or severe nausea, moderate to severe vomiting, seizures, [or] severe, persistent muscle spasms, or moderate to severe insomnia; or 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 30 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0084

 10/28/20

 

HB 89-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT adding qualifying medical conditions to the therapeutic use of cannabis law.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

Indeterminable Increase

Indeterminable Increase

Indeterminable Increase

   Expenditures

$0

$0

$0

$0

  Funding Source:

 [ ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ X ] Other - Registry Identification Card and Certificate Fund 

   

 

 

 

 

  METHODOLOGY:

This bill adds moderate to severe insomnia to the definition of "qualifying medical condition" for the purposes of the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes law. The Department of Health and Human Services indicates addition of this qualifying medical condition would result in more patients eligible for the Therapeutic Cannabis Program. To the extent additional patients apply to the program, there would be an increase in application fee revenue received by the Department. Under the statutorily mandated self-funding structure of the Therapeutic Cannabis Program in RSA 126-X and the fee structure established in administrative rule, this may result in lower annual registration fees for the Alternative Treatment Centers. There would be an increase in the number of applications processed by the Department, however it is not expected that the increase would necessitate additional staff.

 

It is assumed this bill will be effective July 1, 2021.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Health and Human Services

 

