 HB 64-LOCAL - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0044

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 64-LOCAL

 

AN ACT relative to renewable generation facility property subject to a voluntary payment in lieu of taxes agreement.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Porter, Hills. 1; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Rep. McGhee, Hills. 27

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the exclusion of a renewable generation facility's payments in lieu of taxes from a municipality's tax base for the education tax.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0044

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to renewable generation facility property subject to a voluntary payment in lieu of taxes agreement.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Property Taxation; Renewable Generation Facilities; Equalization. Amend RSA 72:74, II to read as follows:

 II. A renewable generation facility subject to a voluntary agreement to make a payment in lieu of taxes under this section shall be subject to the laws governing the utility property tax under RSA 83-F. Payments made pursuant to such agreement shall satisfy any tax liability relative to the renewable generation facility that otherwise exists under RSA 72. The payment in lieu of taxes shall be equalized under RSA 21-J:3, XIII in the same manner as other payments in lieu of taxes, but shall be excluded from the tax base used to determine the statewide education property tax in accordance with RSA 76:8, I(a). In the absence of a payment in lieu of taxes agreement, the renewable generation facility shall be subject to taxation under RSA 72. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

