 HB 175 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0132

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 175

 

AN ACT relative to reciprocal driver education.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Comtois, Belk. 7; Rep. Howard, Belk. 8; Rep. Mason, Merr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the commissioner of the department of safety to issue a driver's license to any individual who can provide satisfactory evidence of completion of a course of driver education approved by the state in which the course was offered.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0132

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to reciprocal driver education.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Driver Education; Reciprocity. Amend RSA 263:20 to read as follows:

 263:20 Driver Education; Reciprocity. The provisions of RSA 263:19 shall not prevent the issuance of a driver's license to any individual who can provide satisfactory evidence of completion of a course of driver education, approved by the state in which the course is offered[, provided that the commissioner of safety shall determine that such course is essentially equivalent to the state's minimum standards]. The commissioner shall [take all reasonable steps to] facilitate [appropriate] interstate driver education. The commissioner shall include in its report pursuant to RSA 20:7, a report to the general court on the progress of reciprocal driver education. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

