 SB 17 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0327

 08/11

 

SENATE BILL 17

 

AN ACT relative to brew pubs allowing customers to bring dogs to outdoor areas.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19; Sen. Gannon, Dist 23; Sen. Cavanaugh, Dist 16; Sen. Carson, Dist 14; Sen. Sherman, Dist 24

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows municipalities to adopt ordinances to allow dogs in outdoor areas of brew pubs.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0327

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to brew pubs allowing customers to bring dogs to outdoor areas.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Dogs on Brew Pub Patios. Amend RSA 466:44 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:

 III. A municipality may adopt an ordinance allowing a person holding a brew pub license under RSA 178:13 to allow dogs onto any patio at his or her place of business, if such dogs' and owners' access to the patio is from the exterior of the brew pub, regardless of whether food or drink are served on such patio. In this paragraph, "patio" means an open air, exterior, paved space with an entrance separate from the brew pub. Such dogs shall not be allowed in food preparation or production areas. A brew pub licensee allowing dogs shall prominently display a sign at all public entrances advising patrons that dogs are allowed on the premises. This paragraph shall not apply to service animals as defined by RSA 167-D:1, IV. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

