 CACR 1 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0030

 06/05

 

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 1

 

RELATING TO: taxes.

 

PROVIDING THAT: an income tax on earned personal income shall be prohibited.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harrington, Straf. 3; Rep. Potucek, Rock. 6; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This constitutional amendment concurrent resolution prohibits the adoption of a tax on earned personal income in New Hampshire.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type

 

 21-0030

 06/05

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

CONCURRENT RESOLUTION PROPOSING CONSITUTIONAL AMENDMENT

 

RELATING TO: taxes.

 

PROVIDING THAT: an income tax on earned personal income shall be prohibited.

 

Be it Resolved by the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring, that the

Constitution of New Hampshire be amended as follows:

 

 I. That the second part of the constitution be amended by inserting after article 6-b the following new article:

 [Art.] 6-c. [Income Tax Prohibited.] The General Court is prohibited from adopting a tax on earned personal income.

 II. That the above amendment proposed to the constitution be submitted to the qualified voters of the state at the state general election to be held in November, 2022.

 III. That the selectmen of all towns, cities, wards and places in the state are directed to insert in their warrants for the said 2022 election an article to the following effect: To decide whether the amendments of the constitution proposed by the 2021 session of the general court shall be approved.

 IV. That the wording of the question put to the qualified voters shall be:

“Are you in favor of amending the second part of the constitution by inserting after article 6-b a new article to read as follows:

 [Art.] 6-c. [Income Tax Prohibited.] The General Court is prohibited from adopting a tax on earned personal income."

 V. That the secretary of state shall print the question to be submitted on a separate ballot or on the same ballot with other constitutional questions. The ballot containing the question shall include 2 squares next to the question allowing the voter to vote “Yes” or “No.” If no cross is made in either of the squares, the ballot shall not be counted on the question. The outside of the ballot shall be the same as the regular official ballot except that the words “Questions Relating to Constitutional Amendments proposed by the 2021 General Court” shall be printed in bold type at the top of the ballot.

 VI. That if the proposed amendment is approved by 2/3 of those voting on the amendment, it becomes effective when the governor proclaims its adoption.

 VII. Voters' Guide.

 AT THE PRESENT TIME, the state legislature has the authority to adopt a tax on earned personal income.

 IF THE AMENDMENT IS ADOPTED, the state legislature will be prohibited from adopting a tax on earned personal income.

