 HB 183 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0029

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 183

 

AN ACT prohibiting municipalities from requiring a license for a lemonade stand operated by a person under the age of 18.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Greene, Hills. 37; Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits a city, town, or village district from licensing or regulating a lemonade stand operated by a person under the age of 18.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0029

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting municipalities from requiring a license for a lemonade stand operated by a person under the age of 18.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Hawkers, Peddlers, and Vendors; Exception. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 31:102-a to read as follows:

The governing board of a city, town or village district may adopt, by ordinance or regulation, provisions for the licensure and regulation of itinerant vendors, hawkers, peddlers, traders, farmers, merchants, or other persons who sell, offer to sell, or take orders for merchandise from temporary or transient sales locations within a town or who go from town to town or place to place within a town for such purposes. Any person who violates any provision of such ordinance or regulation shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and each continuing day of violation after notice shall constitute a separate offense. A city, town, or village district shall be specifically prohibited, however, from licensing or regulating a candidate for public office in the process of obtaining signatures on nomination papers, who seeks to have the candidate's name placed on the ballot for the state general election by submitting nomination papers under RSA 655:40. A city, town, or village district shall also be specifically prohibited from licensing or regulating a lemonade stand operated by a person under the age of 18. Provisions adopted under this section shall be in addition to any requirements imposed by the state under either RSA 320 or RSA 321 and may include, but shall not be limited to: 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

