 HB 166 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0121

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 166

 

AN ACT relative to safety requirements for pools on foreclosed residential property.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abrami, Rock. 19

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that any pool, spa, or other water feature structure on the premises of a foreclosed residential property have an approved cover or net.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0121

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to safety requirements for pools on foreclosed residential property.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Foreclosure; Mortgagee in Possession; Pool Cover or Net. Amend RSA 479 by inserting after section 21 the following new section:

 479:21-a Residential Property; Pool Cover or Net Required. A mortgagee in possession of a foreclosed residential property unoccupied for 60 or more days shall secure the surface of any pool, spa, or other water feature structure greater than 20 square feet located on the premises of the residential property with a cover or net approved by the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM). This requirement shall not apply to any surface waters on the property, including but not limited to watercourses, lakes, ponds, marshes, or tidal waters. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

