 HB 146 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0133

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 146

 

AN ACT requiring health care providers to furnish upon request a list of ingredients contained in an injectable medication that is recommended or administered.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Comtois, Belk. 7; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Cushman, Hills. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires health care providers to furnish upon request a list of ingredients contained in any injectable medication that is recommended or administered.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0133

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring health care providers to furnish upon request a list of ingredients contained in an injectable medication that is recommended or administered.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Purity and Branding of Foods and Drugs; Medications Administered by Injection; List of Ingredients Required. Amend RSA 146 by inserting after section 6-b the following new section:

 146:6-c Medications Administered by Injection; List of Ingredients Required. Any prescription drug manufacturer of a medication that is administered by injection, including a vaccine, shall make a complete list of the medication's ingredients available to the public and to health care providers. Any health care provider who recommends or administers a vaccine or other injectable medication shall furnish, upon the request of the patient or the patient's parent or legal representative, a list of the medication's ingredients. In this section, "health care provider" means any person licensed, certified, or otherwise statutorily authorized to administer a vaccine or other injectable medication.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

