 HB 152 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0319

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 152

 

AN ACT relative to the apportionment of costs in cooperative school districts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McGhee, Hills. 27

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits the apportionment formula for a cooperative school district to be subject to review 5 years after an article to continue the current formula was passed.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0319

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the apportionment of costs in cooperative school districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Cooperative School Districts; Reconsideration of Apportionment Formula. Amend RSA 195:8 to read as follows:

 195:8 Reconsideration Procedure. If a cooperative school district was organized prior to July 1, 1963, the basis for the apportionment of all such costs may be subject to review, pursuant to an article for that purpose duly inserted in the warrant for a district meeting to be held at any time after the expiration of the 5-year period measured from the date of the first annual meeting. If the apportionment formula for a cooperative school district has been duly changed, or if an article to

continue the current formula has been passed at a district meeting, the basis for the apportionment of all such costs may be subject to review, pursuant to an article for that purpose duly inserted in the warrant for a district meeting to be held at any time after the expiration of the 5-year period measured from the date of the meeting at which the last change was made to the cost apportionment formula or the last article to continue the current formula was passed. In either case, the cooperative school district may then by majority vote elect to apportion all such costs by the adoption of one of the formulas set forth in RSA 195:7, I(a), (b), or (c). Such apportionment may be reviewed in the same manner at any time in order to permit the enlargement of the territory of a school district or an increase in the number of grades for which the district shall be responsible. 

 2 Cooperative School Districts; Procedure for Formation. Amend RSA 195:18, III(i) to read as follows:

 (i) The method by which the articles of agreement may be amended with the approval of the board; except that no amendment may permit secession of territory. The provisions adopted under either subparagraph (e) or (g) above may be subject to review pursuant to an article for that purpose duly inserted in the warrant for a district meeting which may be held at any time after the expiration of the 5-year period measured from the date of the first annual meeting. If the apportionment formula for a cooperative school district has been duly changed, or if an article to continue the current formula has been passed at a district meeting, the basis for the apportionment of all such costs may be subject to review pursuant to an article for that purpose duly inserted in the warrant for a district meeting which may be held at any time after the expiration of the 5-year period measured from the date of the meeting at which the last change was made to the cost apportionment or the last article to continue the current formula was passed. However, such provisions may be amended at any time in order to permit the enlargement of a cooperative school district or an increase in the number of grades for which the cooperative school district shall be responsible. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

