 HB 190 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0314

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 190

 

AN ACT relative to financial disclosures by legislators.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gordon, Graf. 9; Rep. Wall, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that the legislative ethics financial disclosure form for members and officers of the general court shall only be filed in January of the first year of the biennium.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0314

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to financial disclosures by legislators.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Legislative Ethics; Filing of Financial Disclosure Form; Biannually. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 14-B:8 to read as follows:

 14-B:8 Financial Disclosure Form. Every representative, senator, and officer of the house of representatives and the senate, shall file with the legislative ethics committee a financial disclosure form [annually] no later than the third Friday of January in the first legislative session of the biennium. If the legislator's or legislative officer's financial circumstances change, he or she shall file a new financial disclosure form prior to participation in any official activity which would have been affected by the change. The financial disclosure form shall include the following information:

 2 Legislative Ethics; Filing of Financial Disclosure Form. Amend RSA 14-B:9 to read as follows:

 14-B:9 Filing With Secretary of State. All forms filed under RSA 14-B:8 shall be on file with the secretary of state on or before February 15 in the first legislative session of the biennium.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

