 HB 130 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0073

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 130

 

AN ACT relative to administration by the retirement system of certain health care premium deductions.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Schuett, Merr. 20; Rep. P. Schmidt, Straf. 19; Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. S. Pearson, Rock. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the deduction by the retirement system of a member's or beneficiary's health care premium costs as determined by the department of administrative services.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0073

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to administration by the retirement system of certain health care premium deductions.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Retirement System; Insurance Premium Cost. Amend RSA 100-A:54, III(c) to read as follows:

 (c) The department of administrative services shall provide information as to the total monthly premium cost for each participant to the retirement system for purposes of calculating this deduction. [Deducted amounts, which shall be in addition to and notwithstanding any amounts payable] The deductions pursuant to subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall be made prior to any payments made by the retirement system pursuant to RSA 100-A:52, RSA 100-A:52-a, and RSA 100-A:52-b, and shall be deposited in the employee and retiree benefit risk management fund. In the event the retiree's monthly allowance is insufficient to cover the certified contribution amount, the retirement system shall so notify the department of administrative services, which shall invoice and collect from the retiree and/or each applicable spouse the remaining contribution amount. Failure to remit payment of the contribution amount in full within 30 days of billing shall be grounds for terminating benefits, effective from the beginning of the billing period. Reenrollment shall be dependent upon payment of any outstanding contribution or other amounts within 6 months of the termination date. The department of administrative services shall provide notice of the termination of benefits as provided in RSA 21-I:30, XIII. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

