 HB 114-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0079

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 114-FN

 

AN ACT relative to the erection of a sound barrier in the vicinity of Teaberry Lane in the town of Bedford.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Graham, Hills. 7; Rep. Danielson, Hills. 7; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Public Works and Highways

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the department of transportation to erect a sound barrier on the F.E. Everett Turnpike in the town of Bedford.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0079

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the erection of a sound barrier in the vicinity of Teaberry Lane in the town of Bedford.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Department of Transportation; Town of Bedford; Erection of Sound Barrier. The department of transportation shall erect a sound barrier on the F.E. Everett turnpike in the vicinity of Teaberry Lane in the town of Bedford. Construction shall be completed by December 2023. The cost of erecting such sound barrier shall be a charge against the turnpike fund. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0079

 10/22/20

 

HB 114-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to the erection of a sound barrier in the vicinity of Teaberry Lane in the town of Bedford.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Expenditures

$0

$200,000

$1,600,000

$0

  Funding Source:

 [ ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ X ] Other - Turnpike Fund 

   

METHODOLOGY:

This bill requires the Department of Transportation to erect a sound barrier on the F.E. Everett turnpike in the vicinity of Teaberry Lane in the town of Bedford, with construction completed by December 2023. The Department estimates total engineering and construction costs to total $1,800,000, with $200,000 expended for engineering in FY 2022 and $1,600,000 for construction in FY 2023. These costs would be a charge against the turnpike fund, however this bill does not provide additional appropriation authority.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Transportation

 

