 HB 122-A - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0081

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 122-A

 

AN ACT making an appropriation to the Carroll and Strafford counties freight rail improvements project and making an appropriation for the Coos county freight rail improvement project.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Graham, Hills. 7; Rep. Milz, Rock. 6; Rep. Cloutier, Sull. 10; Rep. Tucker, Coos 5

 

COMMITTEE: Public Works and Highways

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes a capital appropriation of $2,000,000 to the department of transportation for the Carroll and Strafford freight rail improvements project. The appropriation is contingent upon the receipt of matching private funds.

 

 This bill also makes a capital appropriation of $2,000,000 to the department of transportation for the Coos county freight rail improvements project. The appropriation is contingent upon the receipt of matching private funds.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0081

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT making an appropriation to the Carroll and Strafford counties freight rail improvements project and making an appropriation for the Coos county freight rail improvement project.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Capital Appropriation; Department of Transportation. The sum of $2,000,000 is hereby appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2022 to the department of transportation, division of aeronautics, rail, and transit for the Carroll and Strafford freight rail improvements project that was partially funded in 2017, 228:1, XXII, D. 

 2 Contingency. The appropriation to the department of transportation, division of aeronautics, rail, and transit, in section 1 of this act shall be contingent upon the receipt by the state of private matching funds of an equal amount.

 3 Bonds Authorized. To provide funds for the appropriation made in section 1 of this act, the state treasurer is hereby authorized to borrow upon the credit of the state not exceeding the sum of $2,000,000 and for said purpose may issue bonds and notes in the name of and on behalf of the state of New Hampshire in accordance with RSA 6-A.

 4 Capital Appropriation; Department of Transportation. The sum of $2,000,000 is hereby appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2022 to the department of transportation, division of aeronautics, rail, and transit for the Coos County freight rail improvements project that was partially funded in 2015, 220:1, XVI, A, 4 and in 2017, 228:1, XXII, C.

 5 Contingency. The appropriation to the department of transportation, division of aeronautics, rail, and transit, in section 4 of this act shall be contingent upon the receipt by the state of private matching funds of an equal amount.

 6 Bonds Authorized. To provide funds for the appropriation made in section 4 of this act, the state treasurer is hereby authorized to borrow upon the credit of the state not exceeding the sum of $2,000,000 and for said purpose may issue bonds and notes in the name of and on behalf of the state of New Hampshire in accordance with RSA 6-A.

 7 Payment. Payment of principal and interest on bonds issued under sections 3 and 6 of this act shall be made when due from the general fund of the state.

 8 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

