 HB 197 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0363

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 197

 

AN ACT relative to the use of deadly force in defense of another.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yakubovich, Merr. 24; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Ankarberg, Straf. 10; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Rhodes, Ches. 15; Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits the use of deadly force against another person in circumstance where deadly force is used in the commission of felony against a person in a vehicle or in the commission of riot against a person within such person's vehicle, dwelling or its curtilege.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0363

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the use of deadly force in defense of another.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Justification; Physical Force in Defense of a Person. Amend RSA 627:4, II(c)-(d) to read as follows:

 (c) Is committing or about to commit kidnapping or a forcible sex offense; [or] 

 (d) Is likely to use any unlawful force in the commission of a felony against [the actor within such actor's]a person in a vehicle, dwelling or its curtilage; or  

 (e) Is likely to use any unlawful force in the commission of riot against a person in a vehicle, dwelling, or its curtilage.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

