 HB 128 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0051

 08/05

 

HOUSE BILL 128

 

AN ACT adding notification requirements to the weather modification statute.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Potucek, Rock. 6; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Howard, Belk. 8; Rep. Sylvia, Belk. 6; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Nunez, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires notice before a state agency attempts to modify the weather.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0051

 08/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT adding notification requirements to the weather modification statute.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Weather Modification; Notification Required. Amend RSA 12-F:1 to read as follows:

 12-F:1 Weather Modification Experimentation.

 I. Any department or agency of the state may, with the approval of the governor and council and within the limits of appropriated funds or by means of gifts, donations or grants, engage in and undertake experimentation in the techniques and methods for weather modification, and may cooperate therein with the federal government, with authorized agencies of other states, and with interested persons and organizations.

 II. At least 2 months prior to the presentation to the governor and executive council for approval of engagement in or experimentation in techniques and methods for weather modification, the department or agency of the state participating in such engagement or experimentation shall do the following:

 (a) Place a public notice in at least 4 newspapers within the state and on the departmental Internet website informing the public of the date and type of the proposed weather modification program or experimentation events within the state.

 (b) Disclose to the public the chemical compounds and technologies to be used in the proposed weather modification program or experimentation events in the state including the effects of the program or experimentation on human health, what wildlife and wildlife habitats may be affected, and the source of funding to perform such program or experimentation.

 (c) Solicit public input regarding the proposed weather modification program or experimentation.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

