 HB 174 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0331

 08/05

 

HOUSE BILL 174

 

AN ACT relative to reporting a collision between a cat and a motor vehicle.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abbas, Rock. 8; Rep. Kenney, Straf. 6; Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. Burroughs, Carr. 1

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the reporting of a collision between a cat and a motor vehicle to the cat's owner or the police.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0331

 08/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to reporting a collision between a cat and a motor vehicle.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Short Title; Arrow's Law. This subdivision shall be known as "Arrow's Law."

 2 Report of Injury to Dog or Cat. Amend the subdivision heading preceding RSA 264:31 to read as follows:

Report of Injury to Dog or Cat

 3 Report of Injury to Dog or Cat. Amend RSA 264:31 to read as follows:

 264:31 Report of Injury to Dog or Cat. The driver of any vehicle who knowingly strikes a dog or cat and fails to report the incident to the dog's owner or custodian or the cat's owner or custodian or to a police officer as soon as possible, shall be guilty of a violation.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

