 HB 192 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0352

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 192

 

AN ACT relative to pistols permitted for the taking of deer.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. J. MacDonald, Carr. 6; Rep. Crawford, Carr. 4; Rep. Avellani, Carr. 5; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2; Rep. Deshaies, Carr. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Fish and Game and Marine Resources

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds additional pistols permitted for the taking of deer.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0352

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to pistols permitted for the taking of deer.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Deer; Pistols Permitted. Amend RSA 208:3-d to read as follows:

 208:3-d Pistols Permitted. Pistols permitted under RSA 208:3, 3-a, 3-b, and 3-c shall include a .357 Magnum, 10mm Automatic, .41 Remington, .44 Magnum, .45 Long Colt, .480 Ruger,[ and] .50 Magnum, .45 ACP (Automatic Colt Pistol), .460 Rowland, .45 Super, .50 AE (Action Express), .357 SIG Sauer, .327 Federal Magnum, and .400 Corbon, provided that a pistol used for taking deer under this section shall be loaded with no more than [5] 6 rounds of ammunition at any time. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

