 HB 256 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0171

 08/10

 

HOUSE BILL 256

 

AN ACT adding members from Londonderry to the commission to investigate and analyze the environmental and public health impacts relating to releases of perfluorinated chemicals into the air, soil, and groundwater in Merrimack, Bedford, and Litchfield.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Rung, Hills. 21; Rep. Thomas, Rock. 5; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. Mooney, Hills. 21; Rep. Healey, Hills. 21

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds members from Londonderry to the commission to investigate and analyze the environmental and public health impacts relating to releases of perfluorinated chemicals into the air, soil, and groundwater in Merrimack, Bedford, and Litchfield.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0171

 08/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT adding members from Londonderry to the commission to investigate and analyze the environmental and public health impacts relating to releases of perfluorinated chemicals into the air, soil, and groundwater in Merrimack, Bedford, and Litchfield.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Commission on the Environmental and Public Health Impacts of Perfluorinated Chemicals; Membership; Londonderry. Amend RSA 126-A:79-a, I to read as follows:

 I. There is established a commission to study environmental and public health impacts resulting from per fluorinated chemicals (PFAS) releases to the air, soil, and water in Merrimack, Litchfield, Londonderry, and Bedford. 

 2 Commission on the Environmental and Public Health Impacts of Perfluorinated Chemicals; Membership; Londonderry. Amend RSA 126-A:79-a, II(a)(8)-(9) to read as follows:

 (8) A representative from each of the affected towns of Merrimack, Bedford, Londonderry, and Litchfield, appointed by the governing body of such town. 

 (9) [Three] Four residents, one from each of the affected towns of Merrimack, Bedford, Londonderry and Litchfield, who are members of drinking water related environmental advocacy citizen organizations which are not affiliated with any government or state agency, recommended by the senators appointed to the commission and appointed by the president of the senate. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

