 HB 252 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0305

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 252

 

AN ACT creating a committee to study the creation of a program giving employers tax credits on business taxes in exchange for providing stipends for child care needs to employees.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Fenton, Ches. 8

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study the creation of a program giving employers tax credits on business taxes in exchange for providing stipends for child care needs to employees.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0305

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT creating a committee to study the creation of a program giving employers tax credits on business taxes in exchange for providing stipends for child care needs to employees.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study the creation of a program giving employers tax credits on business taxes in exchange for providing stipends for child care needs to employees.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee. 

 3 Duties. The committee shall study the creation of a program to give business tax credits to employers who offer stipends for child care needs to their employees. The committee may solicit information and testimony from any individual, agency, or entity the committee deems relevant to its study.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

