 HB 232 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0276

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 232

 

AN ACT relative to nonpublic sessions under the right to know law.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Hough, Belk. 3; Rep. Comtois, Belk. 7; Rep. O'Hara, Belk. 9; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15; Rep. Johnson, Belk. 3; Rep. Bordes, Belk. 3; Rep. Baldasaro, Rock. 5; Rep. Sylvia, Belk. 6; Rep. Trottier, Belk. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits nonpublic sessions under RSA 91-A for consideration of the amount paid, offered, or accepted for the sale or lease of property. Nonpublic sessions would not be permitted for general discussions of whether to proceed with the sale or lease.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0276

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to nonpublic sessions under the right to know law.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Access to Governmental Records and Meetings; Nonpublic Sessions; When Permitted. Amend RSA 91-A:3, II(d) to read as follows:

 (d) Consideration of the amount paid, offered, or accepted for the acquisition, sale, or lease of real or personal property which, if discussed in public, would likely benefit a party or parties whose interests are adverse to those of the general community. This subparagraph shall not apply to a general discussion or deliberation as to whether to proceed with an acquisition, sale, or lease of real or personal property.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 30 days after its passage.

