 HB 273 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0110

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 273

 

AN ACT relative to the 50th anniversary of the passage of the 26th amendment, granting the right to vote to 18-21 year olds and celebrating youth voting and office holding.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Cushing, Rock. 21; Rep. Conley, Straf. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill proclaims May 13, 2021 as youth franchise and youth officeholder day in New Hampshire, in honor of the 50th anniversary of New Hampshire’s ratification, on May 13, 1971, of the 26th Amendment to the United States Constitution which granted the right to vote to 18-21 year olds and made 18-21 year olds eligible to hold office in the state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0110

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the 50th anniversary of the passage of the 26th amendment, granting the right to vote to 18-21 year olds and celebrating youth voting and office holding.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Youth Franchise and Youth Officeholder Day. The governor shall proclaim May 13, 2021 as youth franchise and youth officeholder day in New Hampshire, in honor of the 50th anniversary of New Hampshire’s ratification, on May 13, 1971, of the 26th Amendment to the United States Constitution, which granted the right to vote to 18-21 year olds and made 18-21 year olds eligible to hold office in the state. The proclamation shall highlight and celebrate young voters and young elected officials. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

