 HB 260-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0169

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 260-FN

 

AN ACT relative to number plates for motor vehicles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Prout, Hills. 37; Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Warden, Hills. 15; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that a passenger vehicle shall only be required to display one number plate on the rear of the vehicle.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0169

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to number plates for motor vehicles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Number Plates. Amend RSA 261:75, II to read as follows:

 II. Every vehicle driven in or on any way in this state, if required to be registered hereunder, shall have displayed conspicuously thereon a number plate or plates to be furnished by the department, together with any current validation sticker issued by the department and which has a changeable designation of their effective period. The director may make special rules relative to the number of plates, the location of said plate or plates on the vehicle, and the material and design thereof, provided, however, that number plates for passenger vehicles shall have the state motto "Live Free or Die" written thereon, and further provided that a passenger vehicle shall only be required to display one number plate on the rear of the vehicle. The plate shall be kept clean.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0169

 12/30/20

 

HB 260-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to number plates for motor vehicles.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

Indeterminable Decrease

Indeterminable Decrease

Indeterminable Decrease

   Expenditures

$0

Indeterminable Increase

$0

$0

  Funding Source:

 [ ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ X ] Other - Reflectorized Plate Fund 

   

METHODOLOGY:

This bill eliminates the requirement for passenger vehicles to display a number plate on the front of the vehicle (requiring only a plate on the rear). It is assumed that the Division of Motor Vehicles would continue the current process of manufacturing two number plates per set as this bill only refers to passenger vehicles. The plate fee is $4.00 and to the extent individuals choose to purchase and only display one plate, there would be a loss in revenue to the state reflectorized plate fund. The Department of Safety cannot estimate how many individuals will choose to only display one plate. Furthermore, the Department states there would be an indeterminable one-time programming cost to make this change in its registration system.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Safety

 

