 HB 288-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0420

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 288-FN

 

AN ACT eliminating the housing appeals board.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abbas, Rock. 8; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19; Rep. Gould, Hills. 7; Rep. Kelsey, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill repeals the housing appeals board.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0420

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT eliminating the housing appeals board.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Compensation of Certain State Officers. Amend RSA 94:1-a, I(b) by deleting the following:

 DD housing appeals board member

 DD housing appeals board chair

 2 Repeal. RSA 679, relative to the housing appeals board, is repealed. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0420

 12/23/20

 

HB 288-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT eliminating the housing appeals board.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Expenditures

$0

($404,648)

($415,000)

($415,000)

  Funding Source:

 [ X ] General [ ] Education [ ] Highway [ ] Other 

   

METHODOLOGY:

This bill eliminates the 3 member Housing Appeals Board, which is administratively attached to the Department of Administrative Services (DAS). DAS assumes the bill will take effect July 1, 2021. It will have no impact on FY21 but some operating expenses incurred through June 30, 2021 will be payable in FY22, including staff hours worked, expenses for office space and rental equipment and telecommunication services. The estimated cost of operating and maintaining the board for FY21 through FY24 was $415,000 per year. As of December 15, 2020, 2 of the 3 board member positions have been filled (DD step 1 pursuant to RSA 94:1-a, I(b)) and a temporary part time administrative position (Account Clerk III, LG9 step 1) has an anticipated hire date of January 15, 2021.

 

The Judicial Branch states that given the short period that the Housing Appeals Board has been in effect, it is assumed few if any cases have been filed with the Board. As a result, the Branch assumes there will be little if any change to current caseloads or filings in the Superior Court with the repeal of the Board.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Administrative Services and Judicial Branch

 

