 HB 240 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0056

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 240

 

AN ACT relative to identification of cannabis strain for therapeutic cannabis.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. Dontonville, Graf. 10

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires an alternative treatment center to list the full name of the cannabis strain on the label of the packaging and permits the alternative treatment center to list the full name of the cannabis strains available to be dispensed on its public Internet website.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0056

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to identification of cannabis strain for therapeutic cannabis.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Use of Cannabis for Therapeutic Purposes; Labeling of Cannabis. Amend RSA 126-X:8, XVI(a) to read as follows:

 XVI.(a) All cannabis dispensed by an alternative treatment center shall include a label specifying the full name of the cannabis strain, the weight of the cannabis, and any other information the department requires to appear on the label. The label shall also specify that the cannabis is for therapeutic use and that diversion is a class B felony requiring revocation of one's registry identification card. An alternative treatment center may list the full name of the cannabis strains available to be dispensed on its public Internet website. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

