 HB 259 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0229

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 259

 

AN ACT relative to employee uniforms.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yokela, Rock. 33

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits an employee to purchase optional or alternative company uniforms offered by the company.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0229

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to employee uniforms.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Protective Legislation; Withholding of Wages. Amend RSA 275:48, V(b) to read as follows:

 (b) "Uniform" means a garment with a company logo or fashion of distinctive design, worn by one or more employees, and serving as a means of identification or distinction. No employer shall require an employee to wear a uniform unless the employer provides each employee with a uniform reasonably suited for the conditions in which the employee would be required to wear one, at no cost to the employee. An employee may purchase any other company garments or items, including additional uniforms and any optional alternatives to the company uniform offered by the company, if the employee chooses. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

