 HB 245 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0282

 08/04

 

HOUSE BILL 245

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of grocery or convenience store.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Harvey-Bolia, Belk. 4; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill removes the requirement that grocery and convenience stores keep a certain value of inventory in stock.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0282

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of grocery or convenience store.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Grocery Store; Definition. Amend RSA 175:1, XXXVI to read as follows:

 XXXVI. "Grocery or convenience store" means any retail establishment where groceries are regularly and customarily sold for consumption off premises. [Such establishment shall have and maintain groceries which are readily available to the public, the wholesale value of which shall not be less than $3,000, exclusive of cigarettes, magazines, newspapers, wine and beverages. Such groceries shall be representative of grocery items commonly found in such stores.] 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

