 HB 204 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0366

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 204

 

AN ACT proclaiming January 24 as "Granny D" day.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Vann, Hills. 24; Rep. Vail, Hills. 30; Rep. Levesque, Straf. 4; Rep. J. Schmidt, Hills. 28; Rep. T. Smith, Hills. 17; Rep. Schapiro, Ches. 16; Rep. Petrigno, Hills. 23; Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6; Rep. Altschiller, Rock. 19

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill proclaims January 24 as Granny D. Day.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0366

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT proclaiming January 24 as "Granny D" day.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Statement of Purpose. In honor of Doris "Granny D." Haddock, the general court hereby finds:

 I. Doris "Granny D." Haddock was a citizen of Dublin, New Hampshire who walked 3,200 miles across the United States between 1999 and 2000 to promote campaign finance reform; and

 II. Granny D. recognized the importance of civic responsibility and encouraged people to practice their right to vote; and

 III. She was politically active throughout her life and called for honesty, transparency, and equality in politics; and

 IV. She was also known for being committed to her fellow citizens, for working to advance the ideals of democracy, and for her love of the state of New Hampshire; and

 V. As January 24, 2021 would have been Granny D.'s 111th birthday, it is an appropriate day to reflect on her contributions and accomplishments in support of campaign finance reform.

 2 New Section; Observances Proclaimed by Governor; Granny D. Day. Amend RSA 4 by inserting after section 13-cc the following new section:

 4:13-dd Granny D. Day. The governor shall issue an annual proclamation calling for the proper observance of January 24 as Granny D. Day in honor of Doris "Granny D." Haddock, as a New Hampshire citizen of national significance for her stalwart leadership and passionate dedication in fighting for campaign finance reform and her walk across America at the age of 90.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

