 HB 215 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0267

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 215

 

AN ACT permitting school districts to contract with independent schools and private schools.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. O'Hara, Belk. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits a school district to contract with an independent school or private school in this or another state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0267

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT permitting school districts to contract with independent schools and private schools.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 School Districts; Contracts with Schools. Amend RSA 194:22 to read as follows:

 194:22 Contracts With Schools. Any school district may make a contract with an academy, high school, independent school, or other [literary institution] private school located in this or[, when distance or transportation facilities make it necessary, in] another state, and raise and appropriate money to carry the contract into effect. If the contract is approved by the state board the school with which it is made shall be deemed a high school maintained by the district. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

