 HB 293 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0550

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 293

 

AN ACT relative to the procedure for adoption of a minor child.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Belanger, Rock. 9; Rep. Blasek, Hills. 21; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Bordes, Belk. 3; Rep. Love, Rock. 6; Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien, Rock. 6; Rep. Sheehan, Hills. 23; Sen. Carson, Dist 14; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that a home assessment shall not be required in adoption cases if the parents are deceased or their parental rights have been terminated and the child has lived with the prospective adoptive parents for at least 2 years.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0550

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the procedure for adoption of a minor child.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Adoption; Assessment Not Required. Amend RSA 170-B:18, V to read as follows: 

 V. Notwithstanding the provisions of RSA 170-B:18, I and II, in the adoption of a [related] minor child, the court may, for good cause shown, proceed to a hearing and a decree without an assessment when both of the following circumstances are met: 

 (a) The parents of the minor child have surrendered their parental rights, the parents of the minor are deceased, or the parents' parental rights have been terminated; and 

 (b) The minor child has resided with both the petitioners [to whom the child is related] for at least [3] 2 years prior to filing the petition for adoption. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

