 HB 364 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0310

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 364

 

AN ACT expanding the definition of charitable organization to include fraternal organizations for the purposes of holding raffles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ulery, Hills. 37; Rep. Stapleton, Sull. 5

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill expands the definition of charitable organization to include fraternal organizations for the purposes of holding raffles.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0310

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT expanding the definition of charitable organization to include fraternal organizations for the purposes of holding raffles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Charitable Organization; Definition. Amend RSA 287-A:1, II(a) to read as follows:

 (a) Any person or entity that is determined by the Internal Revenue Service to be a tax exempt organization pursuant to section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(2); 501(c)(8) or 501(c)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code, as that section now exists or may hereafter be amended; or 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

