 HB 322 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0350

 08/04

 

HOUSE BILL 322

 

AN ACT requiring a color photo of a dog, cat, or ferret on a rabies vaccination certificate.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Testerman, Merr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Environment and Agriculture

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires a color photo of a dog, cat, or ferret to be attached to its rabies vaccination certificate.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0350

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring a color photo of a dog, cat, or ferret on a rabies vaccination certificate.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Rabies Vaccination Certificate; Color Photo Added. Amend RSA 436:102 to read as follows:

 436:102 Duties of Veterinarian. It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating any dog, cat, or ferret, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination in triplicate which includes the following information: owner's name and address, description of dog, cat, or ferret (breed, sex, markings, age, name), a color photograph of the dog, cat, or ferret, date of vaccination, rabies vaccination tag number, type of rabies vaccine administered, manufacturer's serial number of vaccine, and the expiration date of the vaccination. Distribution of copies of the certificate shall be: the original to the owner, one copy retained by the issuing veterinarian and, within 40 days of the vaccination, one copy to the town or city clerk where the dog, cat, or ferret is kept. The veterinarian and the owner shall retain their copies for the interval between vaccinations specified in RSA 436:100. A metal or durable plastic tag, serially numbered, shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of the dog. Whenever the dog is out-of-doors, off the owner's premises, and not under the control of the owner or handler while working the dog, the collar or harness with the vaccination tag shall be worn. For the purposes of this section, "working the dog" means a dog doing a defined functional canine activity with its owner or handler such as hunting, field work, drafting, and guarding, working, or herding livestock, as defined in RSA 21:34-a, II(a)(4), or participating in any lawful competitive event, including, but not limited to, conformation shows or obedience trials, field trials, agility events, hunts, sled races, or training activities pertinent to functional canine activities. Cats and ferrets shall not be required to wear the collar or harness with the tag. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

