 HB 304 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0400

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 304

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study the funding of tuition and transportation for career technical education.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Shaw, Hills. 16; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2; Sen. Bradley, Dist 3; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17; Sen. Kahn, Dist 10

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to make recommendations relative to tuition and transportation funding of career technical education.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0400

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study the funding of tuition and transportation for career technical education.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study and make recommendations relative to tuition and transportation funding of career technical education.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Seven members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, 2 of whom shall be members of the standing committee having jurisdiction over education, and 2 of whom shall be members of the standing committee with jurisdiction over finance.

 (b) Two members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 3 Duties. The committee shall:

 I. Evaluate and make recommendations regarding the successes and shortcomings of the tuition and transportation funding formula relative to career and technical education; 

 II. Assess and make recommendation for providing funding reimbursement for students who attend CTE within their own school district;

 III. Identify policy and funding strategies to increase student access to career technical education; and

 IV. Consider other policy and funding issues, as the committee may deem necessary.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Five members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2022.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

