 HB 300 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0445

 11/08

 

HOUSE BILL 300

 

AN ACT relative to driver education.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15; Rep. Nunez, Hills. 37; Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. Harvey-Bolia, Belk. 4; Rep. Post, Hills. 4; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Sen. Avard, Dist 12

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill authorizes a waiver of the driver education requirement if a father, mother, guardian, or other responsible adult provides equivalent classroom instruction and behind the wheel training.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0445

 11/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to driver education.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Youth Operators' License; Eligibility. Amend RSA 263:14, II(a) to read as follows:

 (a) The director shall issue a youth operator's license to applicants who are 16 years of age or older and under 21 years of age. The youth operator license shall expire on the 21st anniversary of the applicant's date of birth. In addition to any other requirements established by law, no such license shall be issued to applicants under 18 years of age unless the applicant meets the requirements of RSA 263:17 or furnishes written consent from the applicant's parent or legal guardian and either a certificate of successful completion of a driver education course as provided in RSA 263:19 or a waiver as provided in RSA 263:19, V.

 2 New Paragraph; Driver Education; Waiver. Amend RSA 263:19 by inserting after paragraph IV the following new paragraph:

 V. The commissioner may waive the driver education course requirement if a father, mother, or guardian of the applicant, or in the event there is no parent or guardian, another responsible adult, submits proof that the father, mother, or guardian of the applicant, or in the event there is no parent or guardian, another responsible adult, who has a valid New Hampshire driver's license, has provided classroom instruction and behind the wheel training that is equivalent to an approved driver education course.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

