 HB 380 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0500

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 380

 

AN ACT relative to the election of Grafton county commissioners.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gordon, Graf. 9; Rep. Almy, Graf. 13; Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Sykes, Graf. 13; Rep. Suzanne Smith, Graf. 8; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill changes the terms of the Grafton county commissioners beginning in 2022 so that one member is elected to a 4-year term at each general election.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0500

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the election of Grafton county commissioners.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Election; County Commissioners; Grafton County Removed. Amend RSA 653:1, VI(a) to read as follows: 

 (a) [Grafton and] Hillsborough [counties] county-one county commissioner by those voters in each county commissioner district in [each] the county;

 2 New Subparagraph; Election; Grafton County Commissioners. Amend RSA 653:1, VI by inserting after subparagraph (i) the following new subparagraph:

 (j) Grafton county-one county commissioner by the voters in each county commissioner district; provided that, at the 2022 state general election, the commissioner from district 3 shall be elected to a 2-year term, the commissioner from district 1 shall be elected to a 4-year term and the commissioner from district 2 shall be elected to a 2-year term. At each subsequent state general election, 2 commissioners shall be chosen in the county by the voters of the districts in which a commissioner's term is expiring; and, of the commissioners so chosen, one shall serve a 4-year term and one shall serve a 2-year term and both shall hold their offices until their successors are chosen and qualified. Following the 2022 state general election, the 4-year term shall be rotated in sequence starting with district 2.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

