 HB 349 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0398

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 349

 

AN ACT relative to certification requirements for school nurses.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Hill, Merr. 3; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill removes the requirement for school nurses to be certified by the state board of education.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0398

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to certification requirements for school nurses.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 School Health Services; School Nurses; Certification Removed. RSA 200:29 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 200:29 School Nurses. Each school board may appoint a school nurse to function in the school health program, and provide said nurse with proper facilities and equipment. A school nurse shall be a registered nurse currently licensed in New Hampshire.

 2 Department of Education; School Nurse Coordinator; Certification Removed.

 21-N:6-a School Nurse Coordinator. There is established within the division of learner support the position of school nurse coordinator who shall be a classified employee. The school nurse coordinator shall be a licensed [RN eligible for New Hampshire school nurse certification under RSA 200:29] registered nurse and shall be qualified to hold such position by reason of education and experience. The position shall be subject to any other employment requirements as determined by the department. The school nurse coordinator shall coordinate and provide technical assistance to guide school nurses and other school personnel responsible for student health care in the areas of student health and wellness, safety, behavioral and mental health, and alcohol and substance use disorder. The school nurse coordinator shall also be a resource for administrators, educators, families, and policymakers across the state.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

