 HB 327 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0530

 04/11

 

HOUSE BILL 327

 

AN ACT requiring that voters show identification when personally delivering absentee ballots to town and city clerks.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien, Rock. 6; Rep. Potucek, Rock. 6; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Folsom, Graf. 11; Rep. Love, Rock. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires a city or town clerk to mark the affidavit envelope of an in-person absentee voter verifying that such person presented identification when returning his or her ballot.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0530

 04/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring that voters show identification when personally delivering absentee ballots to town and city clerks.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Absentee Voting; Verification of In-Person Absentee Voter. Amend RSA 657:17-a, II to read as follows:

 II. The clerk shall mark the absentee ballot affidavit [enveloped] envelope with the notation "AIPIDS" (Appeared In Person, ID Shown) and "voter verified" and note on the clerk's list of absentee voters that the voter has been verified. The verified voter's signatures on the application for an absentee ballot shall not be compared to the voter's signature on the absentee ballot affidavit on election day.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

