 HB 392 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0477

 11/10

 

HOUSE BILL 392

 

AN ACT relative to the membership of local land use boards.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Somssich, Rock. 27; Rep. Meuse, Rock. 29; Rep. Hamblet, Rock. 31; Rep. Ward, Rock. 28

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that all voting members of local land use boards shall be residents of the communities in which they serve.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0477

 11/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the membership of local land use boards.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Establishment of Local Land Use Boards; Membership. Amend RSA 673:1, I to read as follows:

 I. Any local legislative body may establish a planning board[, the members of which shall be residents of the municipality].

 2 New Paragraph; Establishment of Local Land Use Boards; Membership. Amend RSA 673:1 by inserting after paragraph V the following new paragraph:

 VI. Voting members of any local land use board established pursuant to paragraphs I-V, including ex officio members, shall be residents of the municipality in which they serve.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

