 HB 325 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0428

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 325

 

AN ACT relative to termination of a state of emergency by simple resolution.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Prout, Hills. 37; Rep. Wallace, Rock. 12; Rep. Testerman, Merr. 2; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Ulery, Hills. 37; Rep. Love, Rock. 6; Rep. Gunski, Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides for termination of a declared state of emergency by a simple resolution adopted by either body of the legislature. Current law requires adoption of a concurrent resolution.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0428

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to termination of a state of emergency by simple resolution.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 State of Emergency Declaration; Termination by the Legislature. Amend RSA 4:45, II(c) to read as follows:

 (c) The legislature may terminate a state of emergency by [concurrent] a resolution adopted by a majority vote of [each] either chamber. The governor's power to renew a declaration of a state of emergency shall terminate upon the adoption of a [concurrent] resolution under this subparagraph; provided, however, that such resolution shall not preclude the governor from declaring a new emergency for different circumstances under paragraph I of this section. 

 2 Supreme Court; Emergency Powers. Amend RSA 490:6-a, II to read as follows:

 II. The general court may terminate any order entered pursuant to paragraph I of this section to the extent that it deals with applicable statutes by [concurrent] a resolution adopted by a majority vote of [each] either chamber. The justices' authority to renew such an order to the extent that it deals with applicable statutes shall terminate upon the adoption of a [concurrent] resolution under this paragraph. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

