 HB 326 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0313

 11/08

 

HOUSE BILL 326

 

AN ACT requiring town and city clerks to make electronic lists of persons who have requested, been mailed, or returned absentee ballots available to candidates upon request.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Berry, Hills. 44; Rep. T. Smith, Hills. 17; Rep. O'Hara, Belk. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that town and city clerks make electronic lists of persons who have requested, been mailed, or returned absentee ballots available to candidates upon request.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0313

 11/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring town and city clerks to make electronic lists of persons who have requested, been mailed, or returned absentee ballots available to candidates upon request.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Absentee Ballot Lists; Electronic Copies. Amend RSA 657:15, II to read as follows:

 II. Candidates whose names appear on the ballot and persons bearing notarized requests or copies of notarized requests from candidates whose names appear on the ballot may obtain a list of absentee voter applicants from the clerk, excluding voters who have presented to the supervisors of the checklist valid protective orders pursuant to RSA 173-B. Candidates whose names appear on the ballot may request, and clerks shall provide, electronic copies of list of absentee voter applicants from the clerk, excluding voters who have presented to the supervisors of the checklist valid protective orders pursuant to RSA 173-B. Clerks shall not require prepayment prior to releasing such lists. Any candidate who makes a request for a list pursuant to this paragraph shall have up to 7 days from the date of invoice to render payment.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

