 HB 362 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0289

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 362

 

AN ACT relative to domicile of students for voting purposes.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Silber, Belk. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill repeals the consideration of a student's educational institution as his or her place of domicile for voting purposes.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0289

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to domicile of students for voting purposes.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Repeal. The following are repealed:

 I. RSA 654:1, I and I-a, relative to student domicile for voting purposes.

 II. RSA 654:2, II(d)(1), relative to student domicile for voting purposes.

 III. RSA 654:12, I(c)(1)(B)(i), relative to student domicile for voting purposes.

 2 Domicile For Voting Purposes; Cross Reference Removed. Amend RSA 654:7, V to read as follows:

 V. The secretary of state shall prepare and distribute an addendum to the voter registration form used under subparagraph IV(c) to be distributed to those registrants who register within 30 days before the election or on election day and who do not provide proof of domicile or a verifiable action to demonstrate domicile. The "verifiable action of domicile" document shall provide notice of the requirements that registrants must furnish documentary evidence of domicile and shall be in substantially the following form: 

Verifiable Action of Domicile 

As a newly registered voter, you have received this document because you did not provide proof of domicile when you registered to vote. RSA 654:2, IV requires you to provide evidence that you have taken a verifiable act to establish domicile. 

The following checklist shall be used as a guide for what you may use as evidence and shall be submitted to the town or city clerk along with documentation that you are required to provide. Only one item on the list is required to demonstrate a verifiable act. 

To establish that you have engaged in a verifiable act establishing domicile, provide evidence that you have done at least one of the following: 

[\_\_\_ established residency, as set forth in RSA 654:1, I-a, at an institution of learning at the address on the voter registration form ]

\_\_\_ rented or leased an abode, for a period of more than 30 days, to include time directly prior to an election day at the address listed on the voter registration form 

\_\_\_ purchased an abode at the address listed on the voter registration form 

\_\_\_ obtained a New Hampshire resident motor vehicle registration, driver's license, or identification card issued under RSA 260:21, RSA 260:21-a, or RSA 260:21-b listing the address on the voter registration form 

\_\_\_ enrolled a dependent minor child in a publicly funded elementary or secondary school which serves the town or ward of the address where the registrant resides, as listed on the voter registration form 

Identified the address on the voter registration form as your physical residence address on: 

\_\_\_ state or federal tax forms 

\_\_\_ other government-issued forms or identification. Describe form of identification: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 

\_\_\_ provided the address on the voter registration form to the United States Post Office as your permanent address, provided it is not a postal service or commercial post office box, where mail is delivered to your home. This can be by listing the address on the voter registration form as your new address on a Postal Service permanent change of address form and providing a copy of the receipt, or an online emailed receipt 

\_\_\_ obtained public utility services (electricity, cable, gas, water, etc.) for an indefinite period at the address on the voter registration form. List services obtained: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 

\_\_\_ arranged for a homeless shelter or similar service provider to receive United States mail on your behalf. Enter name of the shelter or provider: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 

\_\_\_ describe what other verifiable action or actions you have taken to make the address listed on your voter registration form your one voting domicile: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ 

If you have no other proof of a verifiable act establishing domicile, and your domicile is at an abode rented, leased, or purchased by another and your name is not listed on the rental agreement, lease, or deed, you are required to provide a written statement, signed under penalty of voting fraud if false information is provided, from a person who is listed on such document, or other reasonable proof of ownership or control of the property, attesting that you reside at that address, signed by that person or his or her agent who manages the property. 

This verifiable action of domicile form, along with your written statement or other documentation proving a verifiable act, shall be delivered to the town or city clerk, by mail or in person, with 10 days, or within 30 days if the clerk's office is open fewer than 20 hours weekly. 

Name 

Last (suffix) First Full Middle Name 

Domicile Address 

Street Ward Number 

 

Town or City Zip Code 

 

Date Signature of Applicant 

 

 

 

This document was received by the clerk, who examined and returned it to the applicant after making a copy of the evidence of verifiable action, said copy to be attached to the verifiable action of domicile form. 

 

Date Signature of Clerk 

 

 

 

The clerk shall forward the completed form and attachment or attachments to the supervisors of the checklist as soon as possible, but not later than their next meeting. The supervisors of the checklist shall attach the form and attachments to the voter registration form. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

