 HB 309 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0543

 10/06

 

HOUSE BILL 309

 

AN ACT relative to the computation of renewable energy credits.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harrington, Straf. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill revises the methodology for the public utilities commission to estimate renewable energy credits for certain sources that are net metered.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0543

 10/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the computation of renewable energy credits.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Renewable Energy Certificates; Methodology to Estimate Credits. Amend RSA 362-F:6, II-a to read as follows:

 II-a. The commission shall establish a methodology to estimate the total yearly production for customer-sited sources that are net metered under RSA 362-A:9 and for which class I or II certificates are not issued. For purposes of estimation, the commission shall use a capacity factor rating of 20 percent for each class I installation [and shall keep class II production separate from class I production]. The commission shall separately estimate class II output using a capacity factor rating equal to the annual PV Energy Forecast issued by the Distributed Generation Working Group under ISO New England, or its successor.  Providers of electricity required to obtain and retire certificates under RSA 362-F:3 shall receive an annual credit for such production according to its class. By February 28 of each year, the commission shall compute and make public credit percentages that are equal to the estimated production for the prior calendar year in each class divided by the total amount of electricity supplied by providers of electricity to end-use customers in the prior calendar year, with the result converted to a percentage. Each provider may then, at the time of its annual report filing under RSA 362-F:8, claim a class I and a class II certificate credit equal to the credit percentage times the total megawatt-hours of electricity supplied by the provider to its end-use customers the prior calendar year.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

