 HB 367 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0299

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 367

 

AN ACT relative to animal health certificates and quarantine requirements for animals imported into the state.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Environment and Agriculture

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes certain requirements for a dog, cat, or ferret to receive a health certificate, including a 7 day quarantine period for imported animals.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0299

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to animal health certificates and quarantine requirements for animals imported into the state.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Health Certificates. Amend RSA 437:8, I to read as follows:

 I. For purposes of this chapter, an official health certificate means a certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian, containing the name and address of the entity transferring ownership of the dog, cat, or ferret, the name and address of the issuing veterinarian, the age, gender, breed, microchip number, tattoo number, ear tag number, or physical description of the dog, cat, or ferret, and the certification of the veterinarian that the dog, cat, or ferret is free from evidence of communicable diseases or internal or external parasites. A list of all vaccines and medication administered to the dog, cat, or ferret shall be included on or attached to the certificate.

 2 Health Certificates. Amend RSA 437:8, IV to read as follows:

 IV. Once a dog, cat, or ferret intended for transfer has entered the state, it shall be held at least [48 hours] 7 days at a facility licensed under RSA 437 or at a facility operated by a licensed veterinarian separated from contact with other non-quarantined animals on the premises and shall receive a health certificate from a licensed veterinarian before being offered for transfer.

 3 New Paragraphs; Health Certificates for Dogs, Cats, and Ferrets; Rabies Vaccinations. Amend RSA 437:8 by inserting after paragraph VI the following new paragraphs:

 VII. No dog or cat shall be imported into New Hampshire with intent to transfer without first receiving a negative test for intestinal parasites, heartworm if the dog or cat is over 6 months of age, and proof of deworming issued by a licensed veterinarian within 14 days previous to the transfer. The commissioner of the department of agriculture, markets, and food shall adopt rules under RSA 541-A relative to what tests are sufficient for such diseases.

 VIII. A dog, cat, or ferret 4 months old or older shall be vaccinated against rabies at least 30 days before entering New Hampshire in order to receive a health certificate under this section. Puppies and kittens shall not be vaccinated against rabies before 3 months of age.

 IX. A dog, cat, or ferret 3 months old or older shall be vaccinated against rabies at least 30 days before entering New Hampshire in order to receive a health certificate under this section. Puppies and kittens shall not be vaccinated against rabies before 3 months of age. For puppies and kittens under 16 weeks old, proof that the dam's rabies vaccination is current shall be required in order to receive a health certificate. 

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

