 HB 376 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0480

 10/11

 

HOUSE BILL 376

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study applications of microgrids in electricity supply.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Somssich, Rock. 27; Rep. Hamblet, Rock. 31; Rep. Meuse, Rock. 29

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study the applications of microgrids in New Hampshire and changes in law necessary to allow for microgrids in electricity supply.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0480

 10/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study applications of microgrids in electricity supply.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study the applications of microgrids in New Hampshire and changes in law necessary to allow for microgrids in electricity supply.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Four members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. 

 (b) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 3 Duties. The committee shall study the applications of microgrids in New Hampshire and changes in law necessary to allow for microgrids in electricity supply, with a view to both near-term and long-term applications in the state. For this purpose, the committee shall consult with representatives of utility companies, companies involved with microgrid development, and members of the general public with specific knowledge regarding microgrids and their benefits, as well as obstacles to their deployment.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

