 HB 394 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0488

 05/11

 

HOUSE BILL 394

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the short and long term impacts of pending national and regional carbon pricing mechanisms on New Hampshire’s residents, agriculture, wildlife and natural resources-based tourism sector, and commercial enterprises.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Oxenham, Sull. 1

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a commission on the public health, economic, environmental and climate impacts of national and regional carbon pricing mechanisms.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0488

 05/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the short and long term impacts of pending national and regional carbon pricing mechanisms on New Hampshire’s residents, agriculture, wildlife and natural resources-based tourism sector, and commercial enterprises.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subdivision; Study Commission on the Public Health, Economic, Environmental and Climate Impacts of National and Regional Carbon Pricing Mechanisms. Amend RSA 12-A by inserting after section 70 the following new subdivision:

Economic Impact of National Carbon Pricing Study Commission

 12-A:71 Economic Impact of National Carbon Pricing Study Commission.

 I. A commission is established to study the short and long term impacts of pending national and regional carbon pricing mechanisms on New Hampshire’s residents, agriculture, wildlife and natural resources-based tourism sector, and commercial enterprises. The commission shall also examine the trade-off between timely investments in protective measures and infrastructure upgrades against the long term costs of inaction.

 II. The commission shall consist of the following members:

 (a) Two members of the house of representatives who are members of the science, technology, and energy committee, one appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives and one appointed by the minority leader. 

 (b) Two members of the senate who are members of the energy and natural resources committee, one appointed by the president of the senate and one appointed by the minority leader.

 (c) The director of the department of business and economic affairs, or his or her designee.

 (d) The consumer advocate of the office of the consumer advocate, or his or her designee.

 (e) One representative of the business and industry community, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, and one representative of the tourism sector, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (f) The director of the department of environmental services, or his or her designee.

 (g) The director of the department of natural and cultural resources, or his or her designee.

 (h) The director of the department of health and human services, or his or her designee.

 (i) One representative from an electric distribution company, appointed by the governor.

 (j) One representative from a 501(c)(3) environmental or carbon pricing group, appointed by the governor.

 III. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 IV. The commission shall study and receive testimony, advice, and other information, at its discretion, from relevant state, regional, and national agencies, organizations, and individuals as to:

 (a) The various carbon pricing programs being proposed at the regional and national level and in surrounding states.

 (b) The effects such pricing would have on public health, including the morbidity and mortality effects of both reduced greenhouse gas emissions and non-greenhouse gas pollution.

 (c) The short and long term effects such pricing would have on state energy costs.

 (d) The effects such pricing would have on in-state businesses, municipalities, industries, agriculture, tourism, and the state’s job market.

 (e) The short term and long term effects such pricing would have on current residents and prospective migration.

 (f) The short term and long term effects such pricing would have on the state budget and the state's economy. 

 (g) Whether or not to recommend introducing carbon pricing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and if so, how a carbon pricing program should be structured.

 (h) The short and long term health and economic impacts of such a fee structure.

 (i) How and to what extent the fees collected might be returned in whole or in part to New Hampshire’s residents, businesses and municipalities.

 V. The commission shall solicit information as needed from outside individuals, organizations, and groups.

 VI. At the conclusion of its study, the commission shall issue a public report containing its findings regarding each of the points listed in paragraph IV and make appropriate recommendations to prepare the state for the pending introduction of carbon pricing at the national and regional level, and in neighboring states.

 VII. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members, and hold the first meeting of the commission within 45 days of the effective date of this section. The first named house member shall call the first meeting. Nine members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.

 VIII. The commission shall report its findings and recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 30, 2021.

 2 Repeal. RSA 12-A:71, relative to the commission to study the short and long term impacts of pending national and regional carbon pricing mechanisms, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date. 

 I. Section 2 of this act shall take effect November 30, 2021.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon passage.

