 HB 334 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0354

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 334

 

AN ACT relative to prohibitions on carrying a loaded firearm on an OHRV or snowmobile.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Burt, Hills. 39; Rep. Nunez, Hills. 37; Rep. Kelsey, Hills. 7; Rep. Silber, Belk. 2; Rep. Rhodes, Ches. 15; Rep. Gorski, Hills. 7; Rep. Kofalt, Hills. 4; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Sen. Daniels, Dist 11; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill creates an exception to the prohibition on carrying a loaded firearm on an OHRV or snowmobile for any person carrying a pistol or revolver who is not prohibited from possessing a firearm by a New Hampshire statute.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0354

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to prohibitions on carrying a loaded firearm on an OHRV or snowmobile.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Off Highway Recreational Vehicles; Loaded Firearms Prohibited. Amend RSA 215-A:20 to read as follows:

 215-A:20 Loaded Firearms Forbidden. No person shall carry on an OHRV, or a trailer towed by same, any firearms unless said firearm is unloaded. This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers carrying firearms in the course of duty or to [pistols carried under a permit issued pursuant to the authority of RSA 159] any person carrying a pistol or revolver who is not prohibited from possessing a firearm by a New Hampshire statute. 

 2 Snowmobiles; Loaded Firearms Forbidden. Amend RSA 215-C:35 to read as follows:

 215-C:35 Loaded Firearms Forbidden. No person shall carry on a snowmobile, or a trailer towed by same, any firearms unless said firearm is unloaded. This section shall not apply to law enforcement officers carrying firearms in the course of duty or to [pistols carried under a permit issued pursuant to the authority of RSA 159] any person carrying a pistol or revolver who is not prohibited from possessing a firearm by a New Hampshire statute. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

