 HB 423 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0566

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 423

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. Gould, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a commission to study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0566

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Commission Established. Amend RSA 236 by inserting after section 8 the following new section:

 236:8-a Commission Established.

 I. There is established a commission to study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights.

 II. The members of the commission shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (c) One representative of the department of safety appointed by the commissioner of the department of safety.

 (d) The commissioner of the department of transportation, or designee.

 (e) A representative of the adaptive traffic signal control systems industry, appointed by the governor.

 III. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 IV. The commission shall study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights.

 V. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.

 VI. The commission shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 2 Repeal. RSA 236:8-a, relative to the commission to study the implementation of enhanced automation of traffic lights, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date.

 I. Section 2 of this act shall take effect November 1, 2021.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

