 HB 414 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0613

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 414

 

AN ACT relative to evacuations under a state of emergency.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that the governor may recommend, but not compel, evacuation under the emergency management powers of RSA 4:45. The bill also provides that emergency services shall not be required for those who choose not to evacuate.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0613

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to evacuations under a state of emergency.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 State of Emergency Declaration; Evacuations. Amend RSA 4:45, III(c) to read as follows:

 (c) To provide for and [compel] recommend the evacuation of all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area or areas within the state and to take such steps as are necessary for the receipt and care of such evacuees; provided that emergency services shall not be required for those who have chosen not to evacuate. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

