 HB 416 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0612

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 416

 

AN ACT allowing hobby distillation of liquors.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wallace, Rock. 12; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. Baldasaro, Rock. 5; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3; Rep. Ammon, Hills. 40; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows the hobby distillation of liquors.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0612

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT allowing hobby distillation of liquors.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Liquors; Production for Personal or Family Use. Amend RSA 175:5-b, I to read as follows:

 I. Except as provided in this section, this title shall not apply to the production of beer, [ or] wine, other than fortified wine, or liquor produced from beer or wine by persons over 21 years of age for personal or family use, when such beer, [or] wine, or liquor produced from beer or wine is not offered for sale or sold, when produced in the following aggregate amount per household:

 (a) Not in excess of 200 gallons per calendar year if there are 2 or more persons producing beer or wine in such household.

 (b) Not in excess of 100 gallons per calendar year if there is only one person producing beer or wine in such household.

 (c) Not in excess of the quantity of liquor that is produced from 200 gallons of beer or wine per calendar year if there are 2 or more persons producing beer or wine in such household.

 (d) Not in excess of the quantity of liquor that is produced from 100 gallons of beer or wine per calendar year if there is only one person producing beer or wine in such household.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

