 HB 408 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0004

 04/05

 

HOUSE BILL 408

 

AN ACT relative to employment restrictions for registered sex offenders.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Rep. Baldasaro, Rock. 5; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits a person convicted of certain sexual assault offenses from hiring or otherwise engaging in any employment which provides access to a minor.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0004

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to employment restrictions for registered sex offenders.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Sexual Assault and Related Offenses; Prohibition From Contact With a Minor. Amend RSA 632-A:10 to read as follows:

 632-A:10 Prohibition From [Child Care Service of Persons Convicted of Certain Offenses] Contact With Minors.

 I. A person is guilty of a class A felony if, having been convicted in this or any other jurisdiction of any felonious offense involving child sexual abuse images, or of a felonious physical assault on a minor, or of any sexual assault, he or she knowingly [undertakes] engages in any employment or volunteer service [involving the] which purpose involves the direct care, instruction [or], guidance [of], or repeat interaction with a minor [children, including, but not limited to, service as a teacher, a coach, or worker of any type in child athletics, a day care worker, a boy or girl scout master or leader or worker, a summer camp counselor or worker of any type, a guidance counselor, or a school administrator of any type]. 

 II.(a) A person is guilty of a class B felony if, having been convicted in this or any other jurisdiction of any of the offenses specified in paragraph I of this section, he or she knowingly fails to provide information of such conviction when applying or volunteering for service or engages in any employment [of any type involving] which purpose involves the direct care, instruction, [or], guidance [of], or repeat interaction with a minor [children, including, but not limited to, the types of services set forth in paragraph I].

 (b) A public or private employer shall, either verbally or in writing, advise an applicant for an employment or volunteer position that the position applied for may involve contact with minors which may be prohibited under this section if the applicant was convicted in this or any other jurisdiction of any of the offenses specified in paragraph I of this section. 

 III. A person is guilty of a class B felony if, having been convicted in this or any other jurisdiction of any of the offenses specified in paragraph I of this section, he or she knowingly fails to provide information of such conviction when making application for initial teacher certification in this state. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

