 HB 475 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0652

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 475

 

AN ACT prohibiting the production of a drivers' license or nondrivers' picture identification card as a condition of conducting certain business.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ulery, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits businesses from requiring production of a driver's license or nondriver's picture identification card as a condition of conducting certain transactions.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0652

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting the production of a drivers' license or nondrivers' picture identification card as a condition of conducting certain business.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Consumer Protection; Acts Unlawful. Amend RSA 358-A:2 by inserting after paragraph XVII the following new paragraph:

 XVIII. Requiring as a condition of conducting business the production, copying, or other use of a driver's license or nondriver's picture identification card, provided that:

 (a) This paragraph shall not apply to businesses selling alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, or other goods or services that are restricted by law to persons over a certain age limit.

 (b) A person may voluntarily provide his or her driver's license or nondriver's picture identification card for viewing.

 (c) Any person that lawfully requires production of a driver's license or nondriver's picture identification card pursuant to subparagraph (a) shall provide the owner of such license or nondriver's picture identification card with a copy of either the driver privacy protection policy of the business or a statement from the business that attests the information contained on the license or nondriver's picture identification card is not being retained or shared with any third party and that the information is being used solely for the transaction at hand. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

