 HB 476 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0648

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 476

 

AN ACT relative to election officers at additional polling places.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. McBride, Rock. 8; Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. Wolf, Merr. 5; Rep. Sweeney, Rock. 8; Rep. W. MacDonald, Rock. 5; Rep. Elliott, Rock. 8; Rep. Sytek, Rock. 8; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2; Rep. Hayward, Straf. 1; Sen. Morse, Dist 22

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill removes the requirement that election officials for an additional polling place in a town be domiciled in the district of the additional polling place.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0648

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to election officers at additional polling places.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Additional Polling Places; Officers. Amend RSA 658:14 to read as follows:

 658:14 Officers. The moderator shall appoint an assistant moderator for each additional polling place and the town clerk shall appoint an assistant clerk for each additional polling place. Each assistant moderator and assistant clerk shall have their domicile in the [voting district covered by the additional polling place] town where they will serve. The powers and duties of the assistant moderator and the assistant clerk shall be the same as those of the moderator and the clerk at the central polling place except as otherwise provided in the election laws. The inspectors of elections appointed as provided in RSA 658:2 shall be sworn in by the assistant moderator before entering upon their duties. 

 2 Additional Polling Places; Special Provisions for Cities. Amend RSA 658:18 to read as follows:

 658:18 Special Provision for Cities. Cities may adopt the provisions of RSA 658:10-658:17. The city council shall create and discontinue the voting districts in city wards, establish the additional polling places therein, and select the election officers for the additional polling place. Each assistant moderator and assistant clerk shall have their domicile in the city ward where they will serve. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

