 HB 483 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0649

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 483

 

AN ACT prohibiting certain political advertising.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Infantine, Hills. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits political advertising that states or suggests a candidate for office would have opposed legislation from prior legislative sessions when the candidate in question has either never been a legislator or was not a legislator when such legislation was voted on.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0649

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting certain political advertising.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Certain Political Advertising Prohibited. Amend RSA 664 by inserting after section 17-a the following new section:

 664:17-b Political Advertising; Prohibitions. No political advertisement shall explicitly state or suggest that a candidate for office would have opposed legislation from prior legislative sessions when the candidate in question has either never been a legislator or was not a legislator when such legislation was voted on.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

