 HB 431 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0637

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 431

 

AN ACT relative to the responsibilities of an elected animal control officer.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wallace, Rock. 12; Sen. Gannon, Dist 23

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits selectmen to supervise the performance of elected animal control officers.

 This bill also permits selectmen to remove an elected animal control officer from office for nonperformance of his or her duties.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0637

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the responsibilities of an elected animal control officer.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Oath of Animal Control Officer. Amend RSA 42 by inserting after section 8 the following new section:

 42:9 Oath of Animal Control Officer; Bond; Supervision. Elected animal control officers shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duty, give bonds to the satisfaction of the selectmen for the faithful performance of the duties of the office, and be responsible to them for the expenditure of money and the discharge of their duties generally. The selectmen may supervise the methods and manner of performance of such officers. If any animal control officer shall intentionally or deliberately refuse or neglect to comply with lawful instructions of the selectmen, or shall intentionally or deliberately refuse or neglect to carry out the his or her duties after written request by the selectmen, the selectmen may remove such officer from office. The selectmen shall file a copy of any such order of removal, under their hands, with the town clerk. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

