 HB 456 - AS INTRODUCED

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0655

 05/08

 

HOUSE BILL 456

 

AN ACT relative to the disclosure of information from vital records.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. L. Ober, Hills. 37; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2; Rep. McGuire, Merr. 29; Rep. Leishman, Hills. 24; Sen. Carson, Dist 14

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill grants the department of corrections authority to access a limited data set of vital records data on deaths, marriages, and divorces held by the division of vital records administration.

 

 This bill is a request of the department of corrections.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0655

 05/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the disclosure of information from vital records.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Vital Records Administration; Privacy. Amend RSA 5-C:4, II to read as follows:

 II. In collecting information, prime consideration shall be given to the protection of the privacy of the individuals about whom information is given. In accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the secretary of state shall ensure that, when information is collected, the minimum of data shall be collected to accomplish a specific purpose, that no information shall be available to unauthorized personnel, that only the minimum be made available to authorized personnel, and that no information that could possibly adversely affect an identified individual be made public. The department of health and human services shall have access to vital records information in accordance with the provisions of RSA 126:24-c. The New Hampshire retirement system shall have access to a limited data set of vital records information in accordance with the provisions of RSA 100-A:14, XVI. The department of corrections shall have access to vital records information in accordance with the provisions of RSA 21-H:8, XI-c.

 2 New Paragraph; Vital Records; Disclosure of Information. Amend RSA 5-C:9 by inserting after paragraph VIII the following new paragraph:

 IX. The department of corrections shall have a direct and tangible interest in a limited date set of death, marriage and divorce information of individuals they are charged with collection of fees and control and supervision by the department pursuant to RSA 21-H, RSA 504-A:12,VI, and RSA 504-A:13, limited to name of person, date of birth, social security number, date of vital event, place of vital event, cause of death, marital status, and name of spouse. The secretary of state and the commissioner of the department of corrections shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for the purposes of delineating specific procedures and protections for access to this limited data set. 

 3 New Paragraph; Department of Corrections, Administration; Access to Vital Records. Amend RSA 21-H:8 by inserting after paragraph XI-b the following new paragraph:

 XI-c. The department of corrections shall have a direct and tangible interest in a limited date set of death, marriage and divorce information of individuals they are charged with collection of fees and control and supervision by the department pursuant to this chapter, RSA 504-A:12,VI, and RSA 504-A:13, limited to name of person, date of birth, social security number, date of vital event, place of vital event, cause of death, marital status, and name of spouse. The commissioner and the secretary of state shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for the purposes of delineating specific procedures and protections for access to this limited data set. 

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

