 HB 446 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0682

 04/11

 

HOUSE BILL 446

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study the effects of recreational vehicles and other vehicles used in recreational activities on class 5 and 6 roads.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Renzullo, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study the effects of recreational vehicles and vehicles used in a recreational activity on class 5 and class 6 roads.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0682

 04/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study the effects of recreational vehicles and other vehicles used in recreational activities on class 5 and 6 roads.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study the effects of recreational vehicles and vehicles used in a recreational activity on class 5 and class 6 roads.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives representing the majority party, one of whom shall be from the resources, recreation and development committee, one of who shall be from the municipal and county government committee, and one of whom shall be from the transportation committee, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) Three members of the house of representatives representing the minority party, one of whom shall be from the resources, recreation and development committee, one of who shall be from the municipal and county government committee, and one of whom shall be from the transportation committee, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (c) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 3 Duties. The committee shall:

 I. Study environmental effects, the quality of life for the area residents, the sustainability of the road as well as the economic ramification to the towns and homeowners.

 II. Study the present laws pertaining to the issue, including, but not limited to, road usage and zoning laws pertinent to recreational vehicle use.

 III. Recommend actions to remedy any issues the committee deems important.

 IV. Solicit testimony from any individual or organization with information or expertise the committee deems relevant. 

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

