 HB 422 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0571

 06/10

 

HOUSE BILL 422

 

AN ACT relative to the one-half credit required course in United States and New Hampshire government and civics.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. Elliott, Rock. 8; Rep. Edgar, Rock. 21

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the one-half credit course in United States and New Hampshire government/civics that is required for high school graduation to be a separate and distinct course.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0571

 06/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the one-half credit required course in United States and New Hampshire government and civics.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Instruction in National and State History and Government. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 189:11, I to read as follows: 

 I. In all public and private schools in the state there shall be given regular courses of instruction in the history, government and constitutions of the United States and New Hampshire, including the organization and operation of New Hampshire municipal, county and state government and of the federal government. Such instruction shall begin not later than the beginning of the eighth grade and shall continue in all high schools as a component of a one credit course of instruction required for high school graduation in United States and New Hampshire history and a one-half credit course of instruction required for high school graduation in United States and New Hampshire government/civics. This one half-credit course shall be a distinct course, separate from other history courses, and required in the junior or senior year. A school district shall develop and offer the United States and New Hampshire government/civics course and at a minimum, the course shall include instruction in the following areas: 

 2 New Paragraph; Instruction in National and State History and Government. Amend RSA 189:11 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:

 III. To support school districts in the creation of the half-credit course required under paragraph I, the department of education shall assemble a committee of New Hampshire educators to create a sample curriculum. The department of education shall make this resource available to local school districts which may use this curriculum, or develop their own to meet the requirements of this section. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

