 HB 413 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0605

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 413

 

AN ACT establishing a solid waste working group on solid waste management planning and relative to compost.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ebel, Merr. 5; Rep. M. Murray, Hills. 22; Rep. Sykes, Graf. 13; Rep. Wolf, Merr. 5; Rep. Merner, Coos 7; Rep. Suzanne Smith, Graf. 8; Rep. Graham, Hills. 7; Rep. Milz, Rock. 6; Rep. Massimilla, Graf. 1; Rep. Von Plinsky, Ches. 7; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1; Sen. Whitley, Dist 15; Sen. Watters, Dist 4; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Sen. Prentiss, Dist 5

 

COMMITTEE: Environment and Agriculture

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a solid waste working group on solid waste management planning.

 

 This bill also requires the department of environmental services to make certain rules regarding compost.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0605

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a solid waste working group on solid waste management planning and relative to compost.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Purpose and Findings. The general court finds that proper solid waste management protects public health and the environment and preserves natural resources. To adequately prepare the state for future solid waste challenges, New Hampshire must review and update its solid waste management laws and policies and its solid waste management plan, engage in vigorous long-range planning, and develop creative, effective solutions. Other states in the region have devoted significant effort and funds to future solid waste management planning. New Hampshire lags behind in updating its solid waste reduction and recycling policies, while solid waste disposal capacity rapidly diminishes to the detriment and expense of the state’s citizens, municipalities, and businesses. This working group is being established to assist the department of environmental services plan our state’s solid waste future.

 2 New Subdivision; Solid Waste Working Group. Amend RSA 149-M by inserting after section 60 the following new subdivision:

Solid Waste Working Group

 149-M:61 Solid Waste Working Group. 

 I. The solid waste working group shall be convened by the department of environmental services and shall have, at a minimum, the following members:

 (a) One member of the house, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (c) One member of the waste management council, appointed by the chair of the council.

 (d) One member representing owners of in-state landfills that also operate a major materials recovery facility.

 (e) One member representing publicly owned in-state landfills.

 (f) One member representing in-state solid waste haulers that do not operate landfills.

 (g) One member representing companies that reprocess post-consumer waste into products for sale or for reuse themselves.

 (h) One representative of the Northeast Resource Recovery Association, appointed by that association.

 (i) One member representing cities with single stream recycling, to be appointed by the New Hampshire Municipal Association.

 (j) One member representing rural communities using source separated recycling, to be appointed by the New Hampshire Municipal Association.

 (k) One representative of the New Hampshire healthcare industry, appointed by the New Hampshire Hospital Association.

 (l) One representative of the Northeast Recycling Council, appointed by that council.

 (m) One member with expertise in solid waste-related sustainability issues, appointed by chancellor of the university system.

 (n) The commissioner of the department of business and economic affairs, or designee.

 (o) The commissioner of the department of environmental services, or designee.

 (p) Any other members the commissioner of the department of environmental services deems necessary.

 II. Unless otherwise indicated, the members of the working group shall be appointed by the commissioner.

 III. The solid waste working group shall:

 (a) Assist the department in long-range planning for and the development of creative, effective solutions to the state’s solid waste management challenges.

 (b) Review and make recommendations for changes to the state’s existing solid waste reduction, recycling, and management policies, programs, goals, and initiatives. 

 (c) Review and make recommendations regarding the impact of regional solid waste management initiatives, including landfill waste disposal bans, on our state and our solid waste disposal landfill capacity.

 (d) Advise the department in the development of the solid waste management plan required by RSA 149-M:29.

 (e) Review and recommend methods to better provide technical assistance and educational outreach to municipalities, schools, businesses, and the public regarding solid waste reduction, recycling, and management policies.

 (f) Review and recommend ways to better implement the solid waste hierarchy and solid waste reduction goals, under RSA 149-M:3.

 (g) Review and make recommendations based on the 2019, 265 (HB 617) study committee report on recycling and solid waste management in New Hampshire. 

 (h) Review such other matters as the working group deems necessary and to recommend any related legislation, policy, or rule changes.

 IV. The working group shall meet no later than 60 days after the effective date of this subdivision. The working group shall submit an initial report to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on November 1, 2021 and a final report on November 1, 2024.

 3 Compost; Rulemaking. The commissioner shall enact rules pursuant to RSA 149-M:7, XV by September 30, 2021 relative to requirements and best practices for facilities that compost organics, including vegetable matter, meat, meat byproducts, dairy products, and dairy product derivatives.

 4 Repeal. RSA 149-M:61, relative to the solid waste working group, is repealed.

 5 Effective Date. 

 I. Section 4 of this act shall take effect November 1, 2024.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

