 HB 470 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0639

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 470

 

AN ACT relative to the designation of office on ballots.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. G. Griffin, Hills. 5

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the secretary of state to highlight the maximum number of votes a voter may cast for an office.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0639

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the designation of office on ballots.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Ballot Design. Amend RSA 656:6 to read as follows:

 656:6 Designation of Office. Immediately to the left of the set of party columns shall be an offices column which shall list the offices, each preceded by the word "For," for which the candidates whose names are listed in the party columns have been nominated, as in "For Governor." Below each such phrase shall be printed in small but easily legible letters "Vote for not more than \_\_\_\_ (here insert a number designating how many persons are to be voted for)." The secretary of state shall highlight such phrase using either a different font, color, watermark, or other method at the secretary's discretion.  

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

