 HB 454 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0671

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 454

 

AN ACT relative to the requirement that certain governing bodies submit recommendations to the budget committee.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Sylvia, Belk. 6; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Rep. Edwards, Rock. 4; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Sen. Gannon, Dist 23

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires governing bodies to submit to the budget committee information necessary for the preparation of the annual budget in whatever detail the budget committee requires.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0671

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the requirement that certain governing bodies submit recommendations to the budget committee.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Duties of Governing Bodies; Budget Committee Requirements. Amend RSA 32:17 to read as follows:

 32:17 Duties of Governing Body and Other Officials. The governing bodies of municipalities adopting this subdivision, or of districts which are wholly within towns adopting this subdivision, shall review the statements submitted to them under RSA 32:4 and shall submit their own recommendations to the budget committee, together with all information necessary for the preparation of the annual budget, including each purpose for which an appropriation is sought and each item of anticipated revenue, at such [time] times and in such detail as the budget committee shall fix. In the case of a special meeting calling for the appropriation of money, the governing body shall submit such information not later than 5 days prior to the required public hearing. Department heads and other officers shall submit their departmental statements of estimated expenditures and receipts to the budget committee, if requested. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

