 HB 466 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0593

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 466

 

AN ACT relative to contract powers of condominium unit owners' associations.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Read, Rock. 17; Sen. Sherman, Dist 24

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires a condominium unit owner who contracts for property management, maintenance, or improvements business with the condominium recuse himself or herself from any participation in or vote on the awarding of the contract. Any such relationship shall be disclosed by the unit owners' association.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0593

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to contract powers of condominium unit owners' associations.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Condominiums; Powers of Unit Owners' Association. Amend RSA 356-B:42 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. If any unit owner or business where a unit owner is the owner or director of a business or has a pecuniary interest in a business, bids or contracts for property management, maintenance, or improvements with their unit owners' association, the unit owner shall recuse himself or herself from any participation in or vote on the awarding of the contract. The unit owners' association shall disclose to its unit owners the relationship of any unit owner or business where a unit owner is the owner or director of a business or has a pecuniary interest in a business with the contract for property management, maintenance, or improvements. This paragraph shall not apply to a unit owners' association in which owners own time sharing interests.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

