 HB 509 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0770

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 509

 

AN ACT relative to portraits and memorial objects in the state house, legislative office building, and Upham Walker house.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wall, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the responsibilities for placement of portraits, flags, busts, statues, or other memorial objects within or on the state house, legislative office building, and Upham Walker house.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0770

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to portraits and memorial objects in the state house, legislative office building, and Upham Walker house.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Portraits and Other Memorials; State House, Legislative Office Building, Upham Walker House. Amend RSA 4:9 to read as follows:

 4:9 Portraits or Other Memorials. No portraits, busts, statues, or other memorial objects shall be placed in or on the state house with the exception of those areas defined by RSA 14:14-b, III and those areas of the state house second floor under the use and control of the general court, state house annex, state library, Hannah Dustin monument, Franklin Pierce homestead, Daniel Webster birthplace, or grounds connected with each without the consent of the governor and council. Any portraits, flags, busts, statues, or other memorial objects to be placed in or on the state house, legislative office building, or Upham Walker house shall be at the direction of the joint legislative historical committee in consultation with the director of the division of historical resources, department of natural and cultural resources. The director, division of historical resources, shall be responsible for the [location and] care of such memorial objects at any of these sites.

 2 New Paragraph; Joint Legislative Historical Committee; Responsibilities. Amend RSA 17-I:2 by inserting after paragraph VIII the following new paragraph:

 IX. To be responsible for the placement of portraits, flags, busts, statues, or other memorial objects within or on the state house, legislative office building, or Upham Walker house in consultation with the division of historical resources, department of natural and cultural resources.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

