 HB 553 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0699

 05/11

 

HOUSE BILL 553

 

AN ACT prohibiting renewal of certain consumer contracts without express written notice to consumers.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Baroody, Hills. 43

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes it a violation of the consumer protection act for a contract for services to include an automatic renewal provision that does not require written acceptance of the additional term of service by the consumer.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0699

 05/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting renewal of certain consumer contracts without express written notice to consumers.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Consumer Protection; Acts Unlawful; Automatic Contract Renewal. Amend RSA 358-A:2 by inserting after paragraph XVII the following new paragraph:

 XVIII. Including in a contract for services an automatic renewal provision that does not require the consumer to accept, in writing, an additional term of service prior to the expiration of the current term. Notice of renewal shall be provided to the consumer no less than 30 days before the contract's expiration date.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

