 HB 569 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0334

 04/05

 

HOUSE BILL 569

 

AN ACT relative to offering vocational training as part of the drug court and alternative drug offender grant program.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. Bershtein, Rock. 2; Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Rep. Abbas, Rock. 8; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17; Sen. Avard, Dist 12

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill authorizes a drug court to order a drug offender to a complete a program offering career-focused vocational or technical education courses.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0334

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to offering vocational training as part of the drug court and alternative drug offender grant program.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subparagraph Implementation of Drug Courts;Vocational Education Programs. Amend RSA 490-G:2, I by inserting after subparagraph (b) the following new subparagraph:

 (c) In addition to the programming under subparagraphs (a) and (b), a drug court may, as a condition for completion of sentence, order a drug offender to a complete a program offering vocational or technical education courses. The drug court may order such education courses as a component of a pre-adjudication, post-adjudication, or a combination program. A county operating a drug court that offers vocational or technical educational courses offered pursuant to this subparagraph shall be eligible to receive funding for such courses from the statewide drug offender grant program pursuant to RSA 490-G:4. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

