 HB 503 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0659

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 503

 

AN ACT establishing a New Hampshire commission on homelessness.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Long, Hills. 10; Rep. Wilhelm, Hills. 42

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes the New Hampshire commission on homelessness.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0659

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a New Hampshire commission on homelessness.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subdivision; New Hampshire Commission on Homelessness. Amend RSA 126-A by inserting after section 88 the following new subdivision:

New Hampshire Commission on Homelessness

 126-A:89 Commission Established. There is hereby established the New Hampshire commission on homelessness.

 I. The members of the commission shall be as follows:

 (a) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives, one of whom shall be nominated by the minority leader.

 (b) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (c) Two mayors of cities affected by homelessness, appointed by the governor.

 (d) One representative of Waypoint, appointed by that organization.

 (e) One representative of NAMI NH, appointed by that organization.

 (f) One municipal welfare director, appointed by the New Hampshire Welfare Association.

 (g) One representative of Families in Transition, appointed by that organization.

 (h) One representative of the United States Department of Veteran's Affairs, appointed by that agency.

 (i) One representative of the Nashua Soup Kitchen and Shelter, appointed by that organization.

 (j) The executive director of the New Hampshire housing finance authority, or designee.

 (k) The commissioner of the department of health and human services, or designee.

 (l) The director of the office of alcohol and drug policy, department of health and human services, or designee. 

 (m) One representative of Harbor Homes, Inc., appointed by that organization.

 (n) One representative of the New Hampshire Coalition to End Homelessness, appointed by the coalition.

 (o) The commissioner of the department of education, or designee.

 (p) One representative of the Council of Churches, appointed by the council.

 (q) One member of the public who has experienced homelessness, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 II. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 III. The commission shall study the issue of homelessness in New Hampshire, the scope and adequacy of available resources, and ways in which the public and private sector could increase assistance to individuals and families experiencing homelessness. The commission shall:

 (a) Review the coordinated services currently administered in New Hampshire, including outreach, treatment, and transitional to independence services. 

 (b) Review housing availability for unsheltered individuals.

 (c) Identify the number of children experiencing homelessness, the adequacy of available services, and shelter options.

 (d) Identify the number of veterans experiencing homelessness, the adequacy of available services, and shelter options.

 (e) Review non-government service agencies and their involvement in their communities.

 (f) Identify public and private programs that effectively address and prevent homelessness, the ability of those programs to meet the need for assistance, and potential funding sources for expansion, if appropriate.

 (g) Review the state of New Hampshire’s regional capacity in shelters and programs in addressing homelessness.

 IV. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. A majority of the commission members shall constitute a quorum.

 V. The commission shall submit an interim report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021. The commission shall submit a final report on or before November 1, 2022.

 2 Repeal. RSA 126-A:89, relative to the commission on homelessness is repealed. 

 3 Effective Date. 

 I. Section 2 of this act shall take effect November 1, 2022.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

