 HB 501 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0785

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 501

 

AN ACT establishing a minimum pay rate for adjunct faculty of the university system of New Hampshire and community college system of New Hampshire.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Cahill, Rock. 17; Rep. Ellison, Merr. 27; Rep. Myler, Merr. 10

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a minimum pay rate for adjunct faculty of the university system of New Hampshire and community college system of New Hampshire.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0785

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a minimum pay rate for adjunct faculty of the university system of New Hampshire and community college system of New Hampshire.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subdivision; Adjunct Faculty Salary. Amend RSA 187-A by inserting after section 44 the following new subdivision: 

Adjunct Faculty Salary

 187-A:45 Adjunct Faculty Salary. Adjunct faculty employed at any institution within the university system shall be paid not less than 75 percent of the salary received by full-time faculty, as calculated on a per credit hour basis.

 2 New Subdivision; Adjunct Faculty Salary. Amend RSA 188-F by inserting after section 69 the following new subdivision:

Adjunct Faculty Salary

 188-F:70 Adjunct Faculty Salary. Adjunct faculty employed at any institution within the community college system shall be paid not less than 75 percent of the salary received by full-time faculty, as calculated on a per credit hour basis.

 3 Applicability. Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall apply to any collective bargaining agreement negotiated between adjunct faculty and the university or community college system which takes effect after the effective date of this act. 

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

