 HB 562 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0774

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 562

 

AN ACT exempting victims of trafficking in persons from participating in children in need of services proceedings.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Massimilla, Graf. 1; Rep. Pantelakos, Rock. 25; Rep. T. Smith, Hills. 17; Rep. Egan, Graf. 2; Rep. Burroughs, Carr. 1; Rep. Merchant, Sull. 4; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill exempts victims of human trafficking from involvement in children in need of services proceedings where the conduct in question was committed as a direct result of being trafficked.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0774

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT exempting victims of trafficking in persons from participating in children in need of services proceedings.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Interference With Freedom; Trafficking in Persons. Amend RSA 633:7, VI(a) to read as follows:

 VI.(a) A victim under this section who was under 18 years of age at the time of the offense shall not be subject to children in need of services proceedings under RSA 169-D, juvenile delinquency [proceeding] proceedings under RSA 169-B, or prosecuted for conduct chargeable as indecent exposure and lewdness under RSA 645:1, prostitution under RSA 645:2, or any other misdemeanor or class B felony, where the conduct was committed as a direct result of being trafficked, provided that the conduct chargeable did not involve an act of violence as defined in RSA 625:9, VII.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

