 HB 579 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0695

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 579

 

AN ACT requiring notice to the public before immigration checkpoints are conducted.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Craig, Coos 4; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Amanda Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. McWilliams, Merr. 27; Rep. Chretien, Hills. 42; Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Labranche, Hills. 22; Rep. Wilhelm, Hills. 42; Rep. Moran, Hills. 34

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the chief law enforcement officer to inform local media when he or she is informed by Border Patrol of an immigration checkpoint.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0695

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring notice to the public before immigration checkpoints are conducted.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Immigration Checkpoints. Amend RSA 265 by inserting after section 1-b the following new section:

 265:1-c Immigration Checkpoints. When any state, county, or municipal police department or law enforcement agency is informed by a federal agency of intent to conduct an immigration checkpoint, the department or agency shall give notice to the public of the date, time, and place of such checkpoint in the same manner required for sobriety checkpoints under RSA 265:1-a.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

