 HB 534 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0763

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 534

 

AN ACT relative to municipal control of certain frozen water bodies.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Walz, Merr. 23; Rep. Woods, Merr. 23

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows municipalities to regulate the time place and manner of use of certain frozen public waters within their boundaries.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0763

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to municipal control of certain frozen water bodies.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Municipal Control of Certain Frozen Public Waters. Amend RSA 271 by inserting after section 20-b the following new section:

 271:20-c Municipal Control of Certain Frozen Public Waters. The local governing body of a municipality may regulate the time, place, and manner of use of frozen public waters of 100 acres or less within their boundaries. Any regulation of a frozen body of water enacted by a governing body of a municipality shall be clearly posted at the usual access points of such frozen body of water.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

