 HB 560 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0713

 10/11

 

HOUSE BILL 560

 

AN ACT relative to the election of Rockingham county officials.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Rep. Milz, Rock. 6; Rep. Pantelakos, Rock. 25; Rep. S. Pearson, Rock. 6; Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill changes the term of the election of county officers in Rockingham county to 4 years beginning in 2022.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0713

 10/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the election of Rockingham county officials.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Rockingham County Officials; Election for 4-year Term. Amend RSA 653:1, V to read as follows:

 V. One sheriff, one county attorney, one county treasurer, one register of deeds, and one register of probate by the voters in each county, except for Rockingham county. Beginning with the election in November 2022, Rockingham county shall elect one sheriff, one county attorney, one register of deeds, and one register of probate for 4-year terms;

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

