 HB 557 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0779

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 557

 

AN ACT relative to the authority of state and county correctional facilities to discipline inmates using close or solitary confinement.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Amanda Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Bordenet, Ches. 5; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Rep. Gourgue, Straf. 25; Rep. Meuse, Rock. 29; Rep. Nutting-Wong, Hills. 32; Rep. DiLorenzo, Rock. 17; Rep. Alicea, Merr. 8; Rep. K. Murray, Rock. 24

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill repeals the authority of commissioner of the department of corrections and a county correctional facility to discipline an inmate using close or solitary confinement.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0779

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the authority of state and county correctional facilities to discipline inmates using close or solitary confinement.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 The State Prisons; Discipline. Amend RSA 622:14 to read as follows:

 622:14 Discipline. The commissioner of corrections may offer suitable encouragement and indulgences to those convicts who distinguish themselves by obedience, industry, and faithfulness[, and may punish any convict guilty of insolence or ill language to any officer of the prisons or guilty of obstinate and refractory behavior by solitary imprisonment not more than 30 days at one time or by such other reasonable and effective modes of punishment and discipline as the commissioner of corrections may from time to time prescribe].

 2 Repeal. RSA 30-B:7, relative to the authority of a county correctional facility to discipline an inmate using close confinement, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

