 HB 577 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0730

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 577

 

AN ACT relative to parenting and divorce cases involving allegations of domestic violence.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Rep. Levesque, Straf. 4; Rep. Elliott, Rock. 8; Rep. DiLorenzo, Rock. 17; Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien, Rock. 6; Rep. Vandecasteele, Rock. 8; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that if domestic violence is alleged in a parenting case, the case shall not be assigned to the complex case docket but shall be heard in district or superior court.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0730

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to parenting and divorce cases involving allegations of domestic violence.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Parental Rights and Responsibilities; Procedure. Amend RSA 461-A:3 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. If domestic violence is identified as an issue in any proceeding under this chapter, either between the parties or between one or both parties and a child or children, the case shall not be assigned to the complex case docket or high conflict docket. The case is criminal and shall be assigned to the circuit court district division or superior court. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

