 HB 543 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0728

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 543

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study nuclear power and nuclear reactor technology in New Hampshire.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ammon, Hills. 40; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4; Rep. Vose, Rock. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a commission to investigate the implementation of nuclear reactor technology in New Hampshire.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0728

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study nuclear power and nuclear reactor technology in New Hampshire.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Purpose Statement. Eliminating carbon emissions from electricity generation is an urgent goal to mitigate the threat of climate change. Energy production using wind and solar sources are still a small fraction of energy production. Wind and solar are carbon-neutral but are very low in energy density and function intermittently. Nuclear power is currently the largest source of carbon-free energy in the US, supplying 20 percent of electricity nationally. The state of nuclear reactor technology has advanced significantly in the last few decades, and a new generation of technologies, “generation IV,” are purported to be safer and more reliable than older generation systems designed in the last century. Now is an opportune time to revisit nuclear power to determine the current state of technology and possible applications for energy production in New Hampshire during the coming decade. 

 2 New Subdivision; Commission to Investigate the Implementation of Next Generation Nuclear Reactor Technology in New Hampshire. Amend RSA 125-O by inserting after section 29 the following new subdivision:

Commission to Investigate the Implementation of 

Next Generation Nuclear Reactor Technology in New Hampshire

 125-O:30 Commission to Investigate the Implementation of Next Generation Nuclear Reactor Technology in New Hampshire.

 I. There is established a commission to study and consider legislation or other actions relative to the possibility of implementing next-generation, nuclear reactor technology in New Hampshire. The members of the commission shall be as follows:

 (a) Two members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) One member of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (c) One member representing Seabrook station, appointed by the owner of the facility.

 (d) The commissioner of the department of environmental services, or designee.

 (e) The chairperson of the public utilities commission, or designee.

 (f) The commissioner of the department of economic development, or designee.

 (g) One member of a New Hampshire-based environmental consortium, appointed by the governor.

 (h) One nuclear power expert, appointed by the governor.

 (i) One member of the public, appointed by the governor.

 II. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the 

legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 III. The commission shall investigate:

 (a) Advances in nuclear power technology, including “generation IV” reactors, by conducting research and seeking counsel and testimony from experts in the field;

 (b) The most promising generation IV designs as determined by the Gen IV International Forum:

 (1) Gas-cooled Fast Reactor (GFR);

 (2) Lead-cooled Fast Reactor (LFR);

 (3) Molten Salt Reactor (MSR);

 (4) Supercritical Water-cooled Reactor (SCWR);

 (5) Sodium-cooled Fast Reactor (SFR); and 

 (6) Very High Temperature Reactor (VHTR);

 (c) Large-scale, small-scale, microreactor, modular and breeder reactor designs;

 (d) The safety of modern designs, including “passive safety systems”;

 (e) Various types of fuel consumption, including the ability for new designs to safely consume nuclear waste, such as the waste in long-term storage facilities;

 (f) Nonelectric applications including:

 (1) Hydrogen or other liquid and gaseous fuel or chemical production;

 (2) Water desalination and wastewater treatment;

 (3) Heat for industrial processes;

 (4) District heating;

 (5) Energy storage; and

 (6) Industrial or medical isotope production;

 (g) Potential siting options;

 (h) Partnerships with industry participants or investors;

 (i) Partnerships with federal agencies, such as the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission;

 (j) Federal incentives for nuclear power generation; and 

 (k) Shall identify potential obstacles with federal nuclear regulation.

 IV. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson, and clerk from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 60 days of the effective date of this section. Six members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.

 V. The commission shall submit interim reports of its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before December 1, 2022 and July 1, 2023, and shall submit its final report on or before December 1, 2023.

 3 Repeal, RSA 125-O:30, relative to a commission to investigate the implementation of nuclear reactor technology in New Hampshire is repealed.

 4 Effective Date. 

 I. Section 3 of this act shall take effect December 1, 2023.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

