 HB 575 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0700

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 575

 

AN ACT relative to licensure of applicants for cosmetology, esthetics, and manicuring through apprenticeship programs.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. Ammon, Hills. 40

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill expands the use of apprenticeship programs in qualifying for licensure as a cosmetologist, manicurist, or esthetician by the board of barbering, cosmetology, and esthetics.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0700

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to licensure of applicants for cosmetology, esthetics, and manicuring through apprenticeship programs.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Cosmetologists; Qualifications; Training RSA 313-A:11, I(c) is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 (c) Have received training which shall not exceed 1,500 hours under a licensed cosmetologist or at a licensed cosmetology school through an apprenticeship approved by the board, the department of education, or the federal Department of Labor, or as otherwise permitted under state or federal law;

 2 Manicurists; Qualifications; Training RSA 313-A:12 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 313-A:12 Qualifications; Manicurists. A person, to be issued a manicurist's license by the board, shall, in addition to satisfying the requirements of RSA 313-A:11, I(a), (b), and (e):

 I. Have completed a course of at least 300 hours of professional training in manicuring, in a school approved by the board and passed an examination conducted by the board; or 

 II. Have completed an apprenticeship approved by the board, the department of education, or the federal Department of Labor, or as otherwise permitted under state or federal law, which shall not exceed 300 hours in a licensed salon under a licensed manicurist, and passed an examination conducted by the board.

 3 Estheticians; Qualifications; Training. Amend RSA 313-A:13 to read as follows:

 313-A:13 Qualifications; Estheticians. 

 I. To be issued an esthetics license by the board, an applicant shall, in addition to satisfying the requirements of RSA 313-A:11, I(a), (b), and (e), have completed a course of at least 600 hours of training in a school approved by the board and have passed an examination conducted by the board. An apprenticeship [approved by the board may substitute for the required training. Estheticians who have practiced professionally in this state for a period of at least 3 years prior to July 1, 1989, and who have satisfied the requirements of RSA 313-A:11, I(a), (b), and (e) and the training requirements of this section shall not be required to take the examination provided for in this section to be eligible for licensure under this chapter], which shall not exceed 600 hours, approved by the board, the department of education, or the federal Department of Labor, or as otherwise permitted under state or federal law, may substitute for the required training. 

 II.  Credit towards the hours requirement for esthetician training may be given to a licensed cosmetologist or barber for equivalent training in the cosmetology or barber program in a school approved by the board upon certification of the training by the school. Credit towards the hours requirement for esthetician training may be given to a licensed massage therapist for massage therapy training deemed equivalent by the board. Cosmetologists licensed by the board may obtain the training hours in subjects required by the board in increments at separate schools but must present certifications to the board for all required hours and curriculum subjects.

 4 Apprenticeship Registration. Amend RSA 313-A:24, I to read as follows:

 I. No person shall enter an apprenticeship or enroll in a school under this chapter unless such person has registered with the board as an apprentice and been issued an apprentice license. The board shall have sole authority to regulate apprentices and apprenticeship under this chapter. The board shall issue an apprentice license to any student receiving instruction within a licensed school [or] and/or shop to learn barbering, cosmetology, esthetics, or manicuring.

 5 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

