 HB 54 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0632

 11/08

 

HOUSE BILL 54

 

AN ACT apportioning county commissioner districts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. B. Griffin, Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Special Committee on Redistricting

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes new county commissioner districts in accordance with the latest federal decennial census.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0632

 11/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT apportioning county commissioner districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 County Commissioner Districts. RSA 662:4 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 662:4 County Commissioner Districts. Except for Strafford county where 3 county commissioners shall be elected at large, for the purposes of choosing county commissioners, the counties shall be divided into districts as follows: 

 I. Belknap: District 1, the towns of New Hampton and Sanbornton and the city of Laconia; District 2, the towns of Barnstead, Belmont, Gilmanton, and Tilton; District 3, the towns of Alton, Center Harbor, Gilford, and Meredith. 

 II. Carroll: District 1, the towns of Bartlett, Chatham, Conway, Eaton, Freedom, Hart's Location, and Jackson; District 2, the unincorporated place of Hale's Location and the towns of Albany, Madison, Moultonborough, Ossipee, Sandwich, and Tamworth; District 3, the towns of Brookfield, Effingham, Tuftonboro, Wakefield, and Wolfeboro. 

 III. Cheshire: District 1, the towns of Chesterfield, Hinsdale, Surry, Swanzey, Walpole, Westmoreland, and Winchester; District 2, the towns of Marlborough and Roxbury and the city of Keene; District 3, the towns of Alstead, Dublin, Fitzwilliam, Gilsum, Harrisville, Jaffrey, Marlow, Nelson, Richmond, Rindge, Stoddard, Sullivan, and Troy. 

 IV. Coos: District 1, the unincorporated place of Success, the towns of Randolph and Shelburne, and the city of Berlin; District 2, the unincorporated places of Bean's Grant, Bean's Purchase, Chandler's Purchase, Crawford's Purchase, Cutt's Grant, Green's Grant, Hadley's Purchase, Kilkenny, Low and Burbank's Grant, Martin's Location, Pinkham's Grant, Sargent's Purchase, and Thompson and Meserve's Purchase and the towns of Carroll, Dalton, Gorham, Jefferson, Lancaster, and Whitefield; District 3, the unincorporated places of Atkinson and Gilmanton Academy Grant, Cambridge, Dix's Grant, Dixville, Erving's Location, Odell, and Second College Grant and the towns of Clarksville, Colebrook, Columbia, Dummer, Errol, Milan, Millsfield, Northumberland, Pittsburg, Stark, Stewartstown, Stratford, and Wentworth's Location. 

 V. Grafton: District 1, the towns of Enfield and Hanover and the city of Lebanon; District 2, the unincorporated place of Livermore and the towns of Bath, Benton, Bethlehem, Easton, Franconia, Haverhill, Landaff, Lincoln, Lisbon, Littleton, Lyman, Lyme, Monroe, Orford, Piermont, Sugar Hill, Thornton, Waterville Valley, and Woodstock; District 3, the towns of Alexandria, Ashland, Bridgewater, Bristol, Campton, Canaan, Dorchester, Ellsworth, Grafton, Groton, Hebron, Holderness, Orange, Plymouth, Rumney, Warren, and Wentworth. 

 VI. Hillsborough: District 1, the towns of Bedford and New Boston and the city of Manchester; District 2, the towns of Hudson, Litchfield, and Pelham and the city of Nashua; District 3, the towns of Amherst, Antrim, Bennington, Brookline, Deering, Francestown, Goffstown, Greenfield, Greenville, Hancock, Hillsborough, Hollis, Lyndeborough, Mason, Merrimack, Milford, Mont Vernon, New Ipswich, Peterborough, Sharon, Temple, Weare, Wilton, and Windsor. 

 VII. Merrimack: District 1, the towns of Boscawen and Webster, and the city of Concord; District 2, the towns of Allenstown, Andover, Canterbury, Chichester, Epsom, Hill, Loudon, Northfield, Pembroke, Pittsfield, Salisbury, and the city of Franklin; District 3, the towns of Bradford, Bow, Danbury, Dunbarton, Henniker, Hooksett, Hopkinton, New London, Newbury, Sutton, Warner, and Wilmot. 

 VIII. Rockingham: District 1, the towns of Danville, East Kingston, Greenland, Hampton, Hampton Falls, Kensington, Kingston, New Castle, Newington, Newton, North Hampton, Plaistow, Rye, Seabrook, South Hampton, and Stratham, and the city of Portsmouth; District 2, the towns of Atkinson, Brentwood, Epping, Exeter, Fremont, Hampstead, Newfields, Newmarket, Raymond, Salem, and Sandown; District 3, the towns of Auburn, Candia, Chester, Deerfield, Derry, Londonderry, Northwood, Nottingham, and Windham. 

 IX. Sullivan: District 1, the town of Cornish and the city of Claremont; District 2, the towns of Croydon, Grantham, Newport, Plainfield, and Springfield; District 3, the towns of Acworth, Charlestown, Goshen, Langdon, Lempster, Sunapee, Unity, and Washington. 

 2 Application. No provision of this act shall be construed as affecting the constituencies or terms of office of county commissioners presently in office. If there shall be a vacancy in a county commissioner district for any reason prior to the 2022 state general election, the vacancy shall be filled under the terms of RSA 661:9 from the same county commissioner district that existed for the 2020 state general election. The nomination and election of county commissioners at the 2022 state general election shall be by districts as provided in this act.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

