 HB 544 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0732

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 544

 

AN ACT relative to the propagation of divisive concepts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ammon, Hills. 40; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill defines and prohibits the dissemination of certain divisive concepts related to sex and race in state contracts, grants, and training programs.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0732

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the propagation of divisive concepts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Chapter; Propagation of Divisive Concepts Prohibited. Amend RSA by inserting after chapter 10-B the following new chapter:

CHAPTER 10-C

PROPAGATION OF DIVISIVE CONCEPTS PROHIBITED

 10-C:1 Definitions. In this chapter:

 I. “Contractor” means any and all persons, individuals, corporations, or businesses of any kind that in any manner have entered into a contract, or perform a subcontract pursuant to a contract, with the state of New Hampshire.

 II. “Divisive concept” means the concept that: 

 (a) One race or sex is inherently superior to another race or sex; 

 (b) The state of New Hampshire or the United States is fundamentally racist or sexist;

 (c) An individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; 

 (d) An individual should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of his or her race or sex; 

 (e) Members of one race or sex cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to race or sex; 

 (f) An individual’s moral character is necessarily determined by his or her race or sex;

 (g) An individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex; 

 (h) Any individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account of his or her race or sex; or 

 (i) Meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic are racist or sexist, or were created by a particular race to oppress another race.

 (j) The term “divisive concepts” includes any other form of race or sex stereotyping or any other form of race or sex scapegoating.

 III. “Race or sex stereotyping” means ascribing character traits, values, moral and ethical codes, privileges, status, or beliefs to a race or sex, or to an individual because of his or her race or sex.

 IV. “Race or sex scapegoating” means assigning fault, blame, or bias to a race or sex, or to members of a race or sex because of their race or sex. It similarly encompasses any claim that, consciously or unconsciously, and by virtue of his or her race or sex, members of any race are inherently racist or are inherently inclined to oppress others, or that members of a sex are inherently sexist or inclined to oppress others.

 V. “The state of New Hampshire” means all agencies and political subdivisions of the state of New Hampshire, including counties, cities, towns, school districts, and the state university system. 

 VI. “Student” means any and all students of any school district, school, college, or university which receives grants, funds, or assets from the state of New Hampshire. 

 10-C:2 Unlawful Propagation of Divisive Concepts.

 I. Requirements for the state of New Hampshire: 

 (a) The state of New Hampshire shall not teach, instruct, or train any employee, contractor, staff member, student, or any other individual or group, to adopt or believe any of the divisive concepts defined in RSA 10-C:1, II. 

 (b) No employee, contractor, staff member, or student of the state of New Hampshire shall face any penalty or discrimination on account of his or her refusal to support, believe, endorse, embrace, confess, act upon, or otherwise assent to the divisive concepts defined in RSA 10-C:1, II.

 II. Requirements for government contractors: 

 (a) All state contracts entered into on or after the effective date of this chapter shall include the following provision:

"During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:

The contractor shall not use any workplace training that inculcates in its employees any form of race or sex stereotyping or any form of race or sex scapegoating, including the concepts that: (a) one race or sex is inherently superior to another race or sex; (b) an individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously; (c) an individual should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of his or her race or sex; (d) members of one race or sex cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to race or sex; (e) an individual’s moral character is necessarily determined by his or her race or sex; (f) an individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex; (g) any individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account of his or her race or sex; or (h) meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic are racist or sexist, or were created by a particular race to oppress another race. The term “race or sex stereotyping” means ascribing character traits, values, moral and ethical codes, privileges, status, or beliefs to a race or sex, or to an individual because of his or her race or sex, and the term “race or sex scapegoating” means assigning fault, blame, or bias to a race or sex, or to members of a race or sex because of their race or sex.”

 (b) The contractor shall send to each labor union or representative of workers with which the contractor has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice, to be provided by the agency contracting officer, advising the labor union or workers’ representative of the contractor’s commitments under this section, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.

 (c) In the event of the contractor’s noncompliance with the requirements of this section, or with any rules, regulations, or policies that may be promulgated in accordance with this section, the contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part and the contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts.

 (d) The contractor shall include the provisions of this section in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by rules, regulations, or policies of the department of administrative services, so that such provisions shall be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The contractor shall take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as may be directed by the department of administrative services as a means of enforcing such provisions including sanctions for noncompliance.

 III. The department of administrative services, or an agency designated by the department of administrative services, is directed to investigate complaints received alleging that a state contractor is utilizing such training programs in violation of the contractor’s obligations under the binding provisions of this section. The department shall take appropriate enforcement action and provide remedial relief, as appropriate.

 IV. The heads of all agencies shall review their respective grant programs and identify programs for which the agency may, as a condition of receiving such a grant, require the recipient to certify that it will not use state funds or assets to promote any of the divisive concepts defined in RSA 10-C:1, II.

 V. Requirements for agencies. 

 (a) The fair and equal treatment of individuals is an inviolable principle that must be maintained in the state workplace. Agencies should continue all training that will foster a workplace that is respectful of all employees. Accordingly:

 (1) The head of each agency shall use his or her authority under to ensure that the agency, agency employees while on duty status, and any contractors hired by the agency to provide training, workshops, forums, or similar programming, for purposes of this section, “training”, to agency employees do not teach, advocate, act upon, or promote in any training to agency employees any of the divisive concepts listed in RSA 10-C:1; and

 (2) Agency diversity and inclusion efforts shall, first and foremost, encourage agency employees not to judge each other by their color, race, ethnicity, sex, or any other characteristic protected by federal or state law.

 (b) The commissioner of the department of administrative services, pursuant to RSA 541-A, shall develop regulations for the enforcement of the provisions of this statute.

 (c) Each agency head shall:

 (1) Issue a policy incorporating the requirements of this chapter into agency operations, including by making compliance with the policy a provision in all agency contracts;

 (2) Request that the agency thoroughly review and assess not less than annually thereafter, agency compliance with the requirements of the policy in the form of a report submitted to the department of administrative services; and

 (3) Assign at least one senior political appointee responsibility for ensuring compliance with the requirements of the policy.

 VI. Review of agency training. 

 (a) All training programs for state agency employees relating to diversity or inclusion shall, before being used, be reviewed by the department of administrative services for compliance with the requirements of RSA 10-C:2, V.

 (b) If a contractor provides a training for agency employees relating to diversity or inclusion that teaches, advocates, or promotes the divisive concepts defined in RSA 10-C:1, II, and such action is in violation of the applicable contract, the agency that contracted for such training shall evaluate whether to pursue debarment of that contractor, consistent with applicable law and regulations.

 10-C:3 General Provisions.

 I. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent agencies or contractors from promoting racial, cultural, or ethnic diversity or inclusiveness, provided such efforts are consistent with the requirements of this chapter.

 II. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit discussing, as part of a larger course of academic instruction, the divisive concepts listed in RSA 10-C:1, II in an objective manner and without endorsement.

 III. If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the application of its provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

