 HB 68 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0013

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 68

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of child abuse.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Testerman, Merr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds sexual reassignment to the definition of an abused child in RSA 169-C, the child protection act.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0013

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of child abuse.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Definition of Abused Child; Sexual Reassignment Added. Amend RSA 169-C:3, II(f) to read as follows:

 (f) Subjected to an act prohibited by RSA 632-A:10-d; or

 (g) Subjected to drug treatments or surgery in an attempt to alter the sex of the child assigned at birth, except in rare cases of ambiguous genitalia. For purposes of this subparagraph, ambiguous genitalia refers to a medical condition in which a child's gender at birth is in question because the genitals do not appear clearly male or female.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

