 HB 77 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0018

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 77

 

AN ACT requiring town and city clerks to provide daily notification to the secretary of state of any filings for elected office.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that town and city clerks provide a daily update of candidates who have filed for nomination to the secretary of state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0018

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring town and city clerks to provide daily notification to the secretary of state of any filings for elected office.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Nominations; Notification to Secretary of State. Amend RSA 655 by inserting after section 15-a the following new section: 

 655:15-b Daily Notification of Filings. City and town clerks shall provide to the secretary of state, on at least a daily basis, a summary of any filings received pursuant to RSA 655:15 each day. Such summary shall be submitted electronically and shall include the name and address of any candidate who has filed. The secretary of state shall then add those persons to the daily report for that day. Clerks shall mail the candidate forms to the secretary of state the same day in which they are filed.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

