 HCR 4 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0800

 05/04

 

HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 4

 

A RESOLUTION recognizing the authority of states to enact laws protecting the lives of the unborn and calling for a Constitutional Convention to propose a human life amendment to the Constitution.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37

 

COMMITTEE: State-Federal Relations and Veterans Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This resolution calls for a constitutional convention to propose an amendment to the United States Constitution stating that a right to abortion is not secured by the Constitution.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

 

 21-0800

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

A RESOLUTION recognizing the authority of states to enact laws protecting the lives of the unborn and calling for a Constitutional Convention to propose a human life amendment to the Constitution.

 

 Whereas, millions of abortions have been performed in the United States since the abortion decision of the Supreme Court on January 22, 1973; and 

 Whereas, the legislatures of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Idaho, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, and Utah have made application of the same subject to Congress; and 

 Whereas, the Congress of the United States has not to date proposed, subject to ratification, a Human Life amendment to the Constitution of the United States; now, therefore, be it 

 Resolved by the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring:

 That the legislature of the state of New Hampshire makes this application to Congress, that a convention be immediately called, of deputies from the several states, for the sole purpose of proposing an article declaring that a right to abortion is not secured by the Constitution of the United States. 

 That the method chosen for ratification be by the legislatures of three-fourths of the states.

 That the house clerk is hereby directed to transmit copies of this application to the President and Secretary of the United States Senate and to the Speaker and Clerk of the United States House of Representatives, and copies to the members of the said Senate and House of Representatives from this state; also to transmit copies hereof to the presiding officers of each of the legislative houses in the several states, requesting their cooperation.

 That this application constitutes a continuing application in accordance with Article V of the Constitution of the United States until the legislatures of at least two-thirds of the states have made applications on the same subject. 

