 SB 18 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0328

 08/04

 

SENATE BILL 18

 

AN ACT permitting tastings by liquor manufacturers at farmers markets.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19; Sen. French, Dist 7; Sen. Cavanaugh, Dist 16; Sen. Carson, Dist 14

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows liquor manufacturers to offer samples at farmers markets.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0328

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT permitting tastings by liquor manufacturers at farmers markets.

 

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Free Drinks; Liquor Manufacturers. Amend RSA 179:44, II-a to read as follows:

 II-a. Notwithstanding paragraph I, wine manufacturers, beverage manufacturers, nano breweries, liquor manufacturers, and brew pubs may provide samples for tasting to persons of legal drinking age at a farmers' market provided they have received written authorization by the town or city's governing body, which authorization shall remain effective until revoked in writing, and they have provided the commission with a copy of that authorization. Provision of samples shall be restricted to clearly defined areas approved by the commission. Samples shall be limited to one 4-ounce sample per label per person for any beer, specialty beer, or cider, and one 2-ounce sample per label per person for any wine and 1/2-ounce sample per label per person for any liquor.

 2 Liquor Manufacturers License. Amend RSA 178:6, IV to read as follows:

 IV. A liquor manufacturer may provide to visitors of legal drinking age at its facility samples of liquor manufactured on the premises for tasting. Samples may be provided either free or for a fee and shall be limited to one 1/2-ounce sample per label per person. Samples sold under this section shall be subject to fees as established in paragraph VI. A liquor manufacturer may transport its products to a farmers market and may offer samples as provided in this paragraph. Such products may be sold at retail at the farmers market in the original containers.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

