 SB 23 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0611

 08/06

 

SENATE BILL 23

 

AN ACT changing the requirement that a member of the sponsoring charitable organization be present during certain games of chance.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Sherman, Dist 24; Sen. French, Dist 7; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20; Rep. Leishman, Hills. 24

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires a member of the sponsoring charitable organization to be present during games of chance at least once during the contract period.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0611

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT changing the requirement that a member of the sponsoring charitable organization be present during certain games of chance.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Operation of Games of Chance; Charitable Organization Personnel. Amend RSA 287-D:14, XI to read as follows:

 XI. A member of the sponsoring charitable organization shall be present and on site [at least once per day] during the operation of any game of chance at least once within the contract period and shall file with the lottery commission an affidavit attesting to the member's presence at the site during the operation of any games of chance. The sponsoring charitable organization member shall not be employed by the game operator.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

