 SB 32 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0852

 08/04

 

SENATE BILL 32

 

AN ACT relative to the fallen state troopers' memorial.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20; Sen. Carson, Dist 14; Sen. Cavanaugh, Dist 16

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows for the disbursement of certain funds raised for the purposes of building the fallen state troopers' memorial and requires the governor and executive council to approve the final design of the memorial.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0852

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the fallen state troopers' memorial.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Fallen State Troopers' Memorial; Certain Disbursements Authorized. Amend RSA 4:9-n, III to read as follows:

 III. The commissioner of the department of administrative services, or designee, shall administer and disburse to the committee established in RSA 4:9-o, the moneys in the special nonlapsing account established in RSA 4:9-o. [No money other than necessary expenses prior to construction shall be disbursed until the governor and council approve and award the contract for the construction of the memorial.] 

 2 Fallen State Troopers' Memorial; Final Design. Amend RSA 4:9-o, VI(b) to read as follows:

 (b) Oversee the construction of the memorial. The [award of the contract] final design for the construction of the memorial shall be subject to the approval of the governor and council. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

