 SB 30 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0219

 06/11

 

SENATE BILL 30

 

AN ACT permitting the towns of Tilton and Northfield to redraw their boundary lines.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Sen. French, Dist 7; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Harvey-Bolia, Belk. 4; Rep. Cross, Merr. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law and Municipal Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits the towns of Northfield and Tilton, upon a 2/3 vote of both towns, to change their boundary line.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0219

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT permitting the towns of Tilton and Northfield to redraw their boundary lines.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Towns of Northfield and Tilton; Boundary Change.

 I. The island located in the Winnipesaukee River between Northfield and Tilton and known as Tilton Island, also known as Island Park and formerly called the Atkinson Island, located in Northfield, upon an affirmative vote of 2/3 of the voters present and voting at annual town meetings of the town of Northfield and the town of Tilton, subsequent to passage of this act, shall become located in the town of Tilton. 

 II. The boundary line of the town of Tilton, presently located along the westerly side of said Tilton Island, also known as Island Park and formerly known as the Atkinson Island, shall, upon the votes of the town of Northfield and the town of Tilton, become located along the easterly side of said island. 

 III. Upon said votes by the town of Northfield and the town of Tilton, said Tilton Island, also known as Island Park and formerly called the Atkinson Island, shall become a portion of the territory of Belknap county and shall no longer be a portion of the territory of Merrimack county.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

