 HB 450 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0663

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 450

 

AN ACT relative to motor vehicle insurance policy minimums.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Infantine, Hills. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill raises the minimum amount required for motor vehicle liability insurance.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0663

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to motor vehicle insurance policy minimums.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Motor Vehicle Liability Policy. Amend RSA 259:61, I to read as follows:

 I. Indemnity for or protection to the insured and any person responsible to the insured for the operation of the insured's motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer who has obtained possession or control thereof with the insured's express or implied consent, against loss by reason of the liability to pay damages to others for damage to property, except property of others in charge of the insured or his or her employees, or bodily injuries, including death at any time resulting therefrom, accidentally sustained during the term of said policy by any person other than the insured, or employees of the insured actually operating the motor vehicle or such other persons who are entitled to payments or benefits under the provisions of any workers' compensation act arising out of the ownership, operation, maintenance, control, or use within the limits of the United States of America, its territories or possessions, and the Dominion of Canada of such motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer, to the amount or limit of at least [$25,000] $50,000 on account of injury to or death of any one person, and subject to such limit as respects injury or death of one person, of at least [$50,000] $100,000 on account of any one accident resulting in injury to or death of more than one person, and at least [$25,000] $50,000 for damage to property of others, as herein provided, or a binder pending the issuance of such a policy or an existing policy, as defined in RSA 264:14, RSA 264:18, and RSA 264:19. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

