 HB 131 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0083

 10/08

 

HOUSE BILL 131

 

AN ACT relative to reporting of health care associated infections.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Woods, Merr. 23

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the information that hospitals must report regarding infections.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0083

 10/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to reporting of health care associated infections.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Residential Care and Health Facility Licensing; Reporting of Health Care Associated Infections. Amend RSA 151:33, II(b) to read as follows:

 (b) Hospitals shall also initially identify, track, and report process measures including[: 

 (1) Adherence rates of central line insertion practices; 

 (2) Surgical antimicrobial prophylaxis; and 

 (3)] coverage rates of influenza vaccination for health care personnel and patients/residents. 

 2 Residential Care and Health Facility Licensing; Reporting of Health Care Associated Infections. Amend RSA 151:33, III and IV to read as follows:

 III. Subsequent to the initial requirements identified in paragraphs II, II-a, or II-b, the department shall, from time to time, require the tracking and reporting of other types of infections and measures when reporting protocols are identified by the department, that occur in hospitals, end-stage renal dialysis centers, and ambulatory surgical facilities in consultation with technical advisors, which shall include the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program, and the National Quality Forum, who are regionally or nationally-recognized experts in the prevention, identification, and control of health care associated infections and the reporting of performance data. All required tracking and reporting of other types of infections and measures shall be consistent with the requirements supported by the CDC, CMS Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program, or the National Quality Forum.

 IV. The commissioner of the department shall adopt rules, pursuant to RSA 541-A, for hospital, end-stage renal dialysis center, nursing and residential care facility, the New Hampshire veterans' home, assisted living residence, and ambulatory surgical facility identification, tracking, and reporting of infections, measures, and/or coverage rates of influenza vaccinations as required in this section which shall be consistent with the recommendations of recognized centers of expertise in the identification and prevention of infections including, but not limited to the National Healthcare Safety Network and the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or its successor, The Joint Commission [on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations], the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Hospital Quality Alliance, the National Quality Forum, and the New Hampshire health care quality [assurance]  and safety commission under RSA 151-G.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

