 HB 107 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0404

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 107

 

AN ACT relative to the minimum hourly rate.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Sofikitis, Hills. 34; Rep. Frost, Straf. 16; Rep. J. Schmidt, Hills. 28

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes the state minimum hourly rate at $22.50 per hour.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0404

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the minimum hourly rate.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Minimum Hourly Rate. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 279:21 to read as follows:

 279:21 Minimum Hourly Rate. Unless otherwise provided by statute, no person, firm, or corporation shall employ any employee at an hourly rate lower than that set forth in the federal minimum wage law, as amended, or $22.50 per hour, whichever is higher. 

Tipped employees of a restaurant, hotel, motel, inn or cabin, or ballroom who customarily and regularly receive more than $30 a month in tips directly from the customers will receive a base rate from the employer of not less than 45 percent of the applicable minimum wage. If an employee shows to the satisfaction of the commissioner that the actual amount of wages received at the end of each pay period did not equal the minimum wage for all hours worked, the employer shall pay the employee the difference to guarantee the applicable minimum wage. The limitations imposed hereby shall be subject to the following exceptions:

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

