 HB 113 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0197

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 113

 

AN ACT relative to payment for earned but unused vacation or personal time.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Cahill, Rock. 17; Rep. Spang, Straf. 6; Rep. Renzullo, Hills. 37; Sen. Perkins Kwoka, Dist 21

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires an employer to pay an employee for earned but unused vacation time.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0197

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to payment for earned but unused vacation or personal time.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Day's Work; Days of Rest; Vacation Time. Amend RSA 275 by inserting after section 35 the following new section: 

 275:35-a Vacation Time. An employer that offers paid vacation time to its employees shall comply with the following: 

 I. Inform employees in writing of any policy regarding accrual or use of vacation time and any limits on accrual or use. In the absence of an accrual system, unused time shall be paid on a prorated basis.

 II. Provide a means through which vacation time requests and approvals are processed.

 III. Provide employees with an accounting of vacation time used and vacation time remaining.

 2 New Paragraph; Protective Legislation; Wages. Amend RSA 275:43 by inserting after paragraph V the following new paragraph:

 V-a. Upon termination of employment for any reason, an employer shall, no later than the next regular pay period, pay an employee for unused vacation time.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

