 HB 150 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0128

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 150

 

AN ACT making a technical correction and a clarification in the law governing death benefits for emergency medical technicians and rescue squad members.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Schuett, Merr. 20; Rep. Goley, Hills. 8; Rep. Soucy, Merr. 16

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes a technical correction in the law governing death benefits for emergency medical technicians and rescue squad members. This bill also clarifies the definition of "rescue squad member."

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0128

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT making a technical correction and a clarification in the law governing death benefits for emergency medical technicians and rescue squad members.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Death Benefits; Emergency Medical Technicians and Rescue Squad Members. Amend RSA 21-I:29-a, I(c) to read as follows:

 (c) “Family” means the surviving spouse of the police officer, firefighter, emergency medical technician, or rescue squad member who was wholly or partially dependent, in fact, upon the earnings of the police officer, firefighter, emergency medical technician, or rescue squad member or, if there is no surviving spouse, the surviving dependent child or dependent children, of such police officer, [or] firefighter, emergency medical technician, or rescue squad member or, if there is no surviving dependent child, a surviving person qualifying as a common-law spouse pursuant to RSA 457:39, or if there is no surviving common-law spouse, the surviving adult child or adult children, or if there is no surviving adult child or adult children, the surviving parent or parents of such police officer, firefighter, emergency medical technician, or rescue squad member.

 2 Death Benefits; Emergency Medical Technicians and Rescue Squad Members. Amend RSA 21-I:29-a, I(h) to read as follows:

 (h) "Rescue squad member" means any member of a rescue squad formed for the purposes of responding to a state of emergency as declared by the governor or as part of a search and rescue effort under the supervision of the fish and game department [to recover a lost person].

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

