 HB 100 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0109

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 100

 

AN ACT relative to driving to the left of an unbroken painted line.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Walsh, Merr. 24; Rep. Packard, Rock. 5

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds an exemption to the prohibition on crossing unbroken painted center lines while driving on any way.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0109

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to driving to the left of an unbroken painted line.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Motor Vehicles; Highway Markings. This act shall be known as the Chapman Act.

 2 Motor Vehicles; Rules of the Road; Highway Markings. Amend RSA 265:22, I(d) to read as follows:

 (d) In order to pass a pedestrian or a device moved by human power, including a bicycle, skateboard, or foot-scooter, provided such movement can be made safely[.]; or

 3 New Subparagraph; Motor Vehicles; Rules of the Road; Highway Markings. Amend RSA 265:22, I by inserting after subparagraph (d) the following new subparagraph:

 (e) In order to comply with RSA 265:37-a, I.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

