 HB 283 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0554

 04/08

 

HOUSE BILL 283

 

AN ACT proclaiming April 11 as Wentworth Cheswill Day.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. DiLorenzo, Rock. 17; Rep. Mangipudi, Hills. 35; Rep. Read, Rock. 17; Rep. Cahill, Rock. 17; Rep. Cushing, Rock. 21; Rep. Petrigno, Hills. 23; Rep. Harriott-Gathright, Hills. 36; Rep. B. Griffin, Hills. 6; Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Sen. Perkins Kwoka, Dist 21

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill proclaims April 11 as Wentworth Cheswill Day.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0554

 04/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT proclaiming April 11 as Wentworth Cheswill Day.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Observances Proclaimed by Governor; Wentworth Cheswill Day. Amend RSA 4 by inserting after section 13-cc the following new section:

 4:13-dd Wentworth Cheswill Day. The governor shall annually issue a proclamation calling for the proper observance by the citizens of New Hampshire of April 11 as Wentworth Cheswill Day in New Hampshire. Mr. Cheswill was born on April 11, 1746 in Newmarket, New Hampshire. Mr. Cheswill, a man of color, has been said to have been the first African-American elected official in the United States. He was a Revolutionary War veteran and served under John Langdon in Langdon's Company of Light Horse Volunteers. He was an elected Newmarket town official and served the town in various elected town offices from 1768 until his death in 1817. In 1801, Mr. Cheswill was among the founders of the first free library in the town and provided in his will for public access to his personal library.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

