 HB 236 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0068

 08/05

 

HOUSE BILL 236

 

AN ACT creating a statute of limitation on civil actions relative to damage caused by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Vail, Hills. 30; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. M. Murray, Hills. 22; Rep. Chase, Straf. 18; Rep. Mooney, Hills. 21; Rep. Labranche, Hills. 22; Rep. Healey, Hills. 21; Rep. Meuse, Rock. 29; Sen. Perkins Kwoka, Dist 21

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill creates a statute of limitation on civil actions relative to damage caused byperfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0068

 08/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT creating a statute of limitation on civil actions relative to damage caused by perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Statute of Limitations; Civil Actions. Amend RSA 485-H by inserting after section 10 the following new section:

 485-H:11 Statute of Limitations; Civil Actions; PFAS Exposure. A civil action arising out of any harm or injury caused by a person or entity found legally responsible for or an action for any damages resulting from a PFAS exposure may be brought within the 6 years after the date the plaintiff discovers, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence should have discovered, such harm, injury, or damages and the causal relationship of an act or omission to such harm, injury or damages. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

