 HB 242 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0124.3

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 242

 

AN ACT relative to the content of an adequate education.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Hobson, Rock. 35; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds specifics to the requirements of providing an opportunity for an adequate education.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 

 21-0124.3

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the content of an adequate education.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Policy and Purpose. Amend RSA 193-E:1, II to read as follows:

 II. Respecting New Hampshire's long tradition of community involvement, it is the purpose of this chapter to ensure that appropriate means are established to provide an opportunity for an adequate education through an integrated system of shared responsibility between state and local government. In this system, the state establishes minimum standards for public school approval and academic standards for inclusion and delivery of educational services at the local level. School districts then have responsibility and flexibility in implementing diverse educational approaches to instruction and curriculum tailored to meet student needs. 

 2 Criteria for an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:2 to read as follows:

 193-E:2 Criteria for an Adequate Education. An adequate education shall provide all students with the opportunity to acquire and apply: 

 I. Skill in reading, writing, and speaking English to enable them to communicate effectively and think creatively and critically. 

 II. Knowledge and skill in mathematics and familiarity with methods of science to enable them to analyze information, solve problems, and make rational decisions. 

 III. Knowledge of the biological, physical, and earth sciences to enable them to understand and appreciate the world and the engineering, socio-economic, and geopolitical challenges around them. 

 IV. Knowledge of civics and government, economics, geography, history, and Holocaust and genocide education to enable them to participate in the democratic process and to make informed choices as responsible citizens.

 V. Grounding in the arts, languages, and literature to enable them to appreciate our cultural heritage and develop lifelong interests and involvement in these areas. 

 VI. Sound wellness and environmental practices to enable them to enhance their own well-being, as well as that of others. 

 VII. Skills for lifelong learning, including interpersonal and technological skills, to enable them to learn, work, communicate, and participate effectively in a changing society. 

 3 Substantive Content of an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:2-a, I to read as follows:

 193-E:2-a Substantive Educational Content of an Adequate Education. 

 I. [Beginning in the school year 2008-2009, the specific criteria and substantive educational program that deliver] An adequate education is one which instills students with essential knowledge derived from rigorous academic study and applied learning. Therefore, the opportunity for an adequate education shall be defined [and identified as the school approval standards in the following areas] as rigorous academic study and applied learning in the following core knowledge domains: 

 (a) English/language arts and reading. 

 (b) Mathematics. 

 (c) Biology, physical science, and earth science. 

 (d) [Social studies] Civics and government, economics, geography, and history. 

 (e) Arts education. 

 (f) World languages. 

 (g) Health and wellness education[, including a policy for violations of RSA 126-K:8, I(a)]. 

 (h) Physical education. 

 (i) Engineering and technologies. 

 (j) Personal finance literacy.

 I-a. Teachers shall use academic and applied instruction to teach the core domains under paragraph I. The following skills shall be integrated into the core domains:

 (a) Computer science and digital literacy. 

 (b) Logic and rhetoric.

 4 Substantive Content of an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:2-a, V(b) to read as follows:

 (b) Upon receiving a valid completion certificate from a state board approved alternative program, a high school under RSA 194:23 shall grant equivalent high school credit leading to graduation to a student who has completed such alternative program.

 (c)  The state board of education shall adopt rules, pursuant to RSA 541-A, relative to the approval of alternative programs for granting credit leading to graduation. 

 5 Substantive Educational Content of an Adequate Education; Definition of Academic Standards. Amend RSA 193-E:2-a, VI(b) to read as follows:

 (b) "Academic standards" means what a student should know and be able to do in a course, program or at each grade level. 

 6 Cost of an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:2-b, I to read as follows:

 I. The general court shall use the definition of the opportunity for an adequate education in RSA 193-E:2-a to determine the resources necessary to provide essential programs, considering educational needs. The general court shall [make an initial determination of] determine the necessary specific resource elements to be included in [the opportunity for] costing an adequate education. The base cost represents the essential per pupil resources to provide a general education student the substantive educational content for the opportunity of an adequate education as required under RSA- 193-E:2-a. In addition to funding the base cost, the general court finds that students with greater educational needs require additional differentiated aid above the base cost in order to provide these students with the opportunity for an adequate education. Such differentiated aid is needed for students who:

 (a) Have special educational needs.

 (b) Have limited English language proficiency.

 (c) Are economically disadvantaged, or attend schools with significant concentrations of economically disadvantaged students. The cost of fiscal capacity disparity aid is a separate grant from adequacy and shall be provided to municipalities with the lowest equalized property valuations per pupil.

 I-a. In this section, "base cost" means the per pupil resources necessary to provide a student with the opportunity to acquire an adequate education as defined in RSA 193-E:2-a in situations where no additional differentiated aid is necessary to address the increased costs of providing that opportunity to students who have additional educational needs identified in paragraph I. Base cost shall include: teacher, specialty teachers, principal, administrative assistant, guidance counselor, library media specialist, technology coordinator, custodian, salary and benefits for personnel, instructional materials and supplies, technology, teacher professional development, facilities operation and maintenance, and transportation. 

 7 Accountability for the Opportunity for an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:3-b, I(a) to read as follows:

 I.(a) A school shall demonstrate that it provides the opportunity for an adequate education for the school approval standards set forth in rules adopted by the department of education in the following areas: 

 (1) English/language arts and reading. 

 (2) Mathematics. 

 (3) Biology, physical science, and earth science. 

 (4) [Social studies] Civics and government, economics, geography, and history. 

 (5) Arts education.

 (6) World languages. 

 (7) Health and wellness education. 

 (8) Physical education. 

 (9) Engineering and technologies. 

 (10) [Computer science and digital literacy] Personal finance literacy.

 (11) School year. 

 (12) Minimum credits required for a high school diploma. 

 8 Accountability for the Opportunity for an Adequate Education. Amend RSA 193-E:3-b, I(e) to read as follows:

 (e) The commissioner of the department of education shall require any school that is unable to demonstrate that it provides the opportunity for an adequate education through the input-based school accountability system to resubmit the narrative explanations annually until such demonstration has been made. The commissioner shall provide the legislative oversight committee identified in RSA 193-C:2 with an annual status report by November 1. The report shall include any school that is unable to demonstrate that it provides an opportunity for an adequate education through the input-based school accountability system. The department shall implement corrective and technical assistance in accordance with RSA 193-E:3-e. Notice of this status shall be posted on the school and school district websites. The school or school district shall provide written notice of such status to parents or guardians of students enrolled in the affected school.

 9 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

