 HB 262 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0218

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 262

 

AN ACT relative to the adoption of bylaws and ordinances by municipalities.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yokela, Rock. 33

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires all bylaws and ordinances to state the enabling statute.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 

 

 

 21-0218

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the adoption of bylaws and ordinances by municipalities.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Powers of Towns; Power to Make Bylaws New Paragraph; Power to Make Bylaws. Amend RSA 31:39 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. Every bylaw and ordinance enacted or amended after the effective date of this paragraph shall state the RSA section that enables such bylaw or ordinance.

 2 City Councils; Bylaws and Ordinances. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 47:17 to read as follows:

The city councils shall have power to make all such salutary and needful bylaws as towns and the police officers of towns and engineers or firewards by law have power to make and to annex penalties, not exceeding $1,000, for the breach thereof; and may make, establish, publish, alter, modify, amend and repeal ordinances, rules, regulations, and bylaws for the purposes stated in this section. Every bylaw and ordinance enacted or amended after the effective date of this introductory paragraph shall state the RSA section that enables such bylaw or ordinance.

Provisions in this section granting authority to establish and collect fines for certain violations shall not be interpreted to limit the authority hereunder to establish and collect fines for any other violations: 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

