 HB 243 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0241

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 243

 

AN ACTrelative to the form of municipal budgets.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Yakubovich, Merr. 24; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4; Rep. Edwards, Rock. 4; Rep. True, Rock. 4; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Sylvia, Belk. 6; Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Sen. Gannon, Dist 23

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires municipal, district, and administrative unit budgets to use full line item detail.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0241

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the form of municipal budgets.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Budget Preparation; Line Item Detail. Amend RSA 32:5, I to read as follows:

 I. The governing body, or the budget committee if there is one, shall hold at least one public hearing on each budget, not later than 25 days before each annual or special meeting, public notice of which shall be given at least 7 days in advance, and after the conclusion of public testimony shall finalize the budget to be submitted to the legislative body. All municipal, district, and school administrative unit budgets shall use a full line item detail in industry-standard electronic spreadsheet format, which shall include all the budget lines used to comprise the complete budget. One or more supplemental public hearings may be held at any time before the annual or special meeting, subject to the 7-day notice requirement. If the first hearing or any supplemental hearing is recessed to a later date or time, additional notice shall not be required for a supplemental session if the date, time, and place of the supplemental session are made known at the original hearing. Public hearings on bonds and notes in excess of $100,000 shall be held in accordance with RSA 33:8-a, I. Days shall be counted in accordance with RSA 21:35. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

