 HB 298 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0437

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 298

 

AN ACT adding a member to the aviation users advisory board.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Rep. L. Ober, Hills. 37; Rep. R. Ober, Hills. 37; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Jack, Hills. 36; Sen. Birdsell, Dist 19; Sen. Gannon, Dist 23; Sen. Daniels, Dist 11; Sen. Bradley, Dist 3

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds a representative of the unmanned aircraft systems industry to the aviation users advisory board.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0437

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT adding a member to the aviation users advisory board.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Aviation Users Advisory Board; Membership. Amend RSA 21-L:8, I(f) and (g) to read as follows:

 (f) One member representing general aviation. 

 (g) One member representing the unmanned aircraft systems industry, who shall be certificated as a remote pilot pursuant to 14 C.F.R. section 107.53 et seq. at the time of appointment.

 (h) The commissioner, or designee, who shall serve as an ex officio voting member of the board.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

