 HB 280 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0432

 05/10

 

HOUSE BILL 280

 

AN ACT relative to termination of an emergency order issued by the governor.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Prout, Hills. 37; Rep. Blasek, Hills. 21

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that the legislature may terminate an emergency order, or any part of an emergency order, by concurrent resolution, adopted by a majority of vote of each chamber.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0432

 05/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to termination of an emergency order issued by the governor.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subparagraph; State of Emergency Declaration; Termination by the Legislature. Amend RSA 4:45, II by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following new subparagraph:

 (d) The legislature may terminate any emergency order, or any part of an emergency order, in the same manner as provided for terminating a state of emergency under subparagraph (c).

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

