 HB 214 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0268

 06/04

 

HOUSE BILL 214

 

AN ACT relative to school building aid grants.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill changes the amount of school building aid grants available in a fiscal year.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0268

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to school building aid grants.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 School Building Aid; Grant for School Construction.. Amend RSA 198:15-a, IV to read as follows:

 IV. [Beginning July 1, 2013, and every fiscal year thereafter,] School building aid grants for construction or renovation projects approved by the department of education shall [not exceed] be no less than $50,000,000 per fiscal year less any debt service payments owed in the fiscal year, unless otherwise provided by an act of the general court. School building aid grants shall be funded from appropriations in the state operating budget and no state bonds shall be authorized or issued for the purpose of funding such school building aid grants. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

