 HB 258 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0228

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 258

 

AN ACT relative to employee time records.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yokela, Rock. 33

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires an employer to permit an employee to electronically sign or acknowledge alterations to such employee's wage and hour records.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0228

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to employee time records.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Protective Legislation; Notification, Posting, and Records. Amend RSA 275:49, VI-VII to read as follows:

 VI. Make such records of the persons employed by him or her, including wage and hour records, preserve such records for 3 years, and make such reports therefrom to the commissioner, as are required in statute for the enforcement of the provisions of this subdivision; [and] 

 VII. Post and make available to his or her employees the following: "It is illegal in New Hampshire under both state and federal law to pay employees different wages for the same work based solely on sex. If you think that your employer has violated this provision, please contact the New Hampshire Department of Labor." This notice shall also include the address, phone number, and email address of department personnel to be contacted with complaints under this subdivision, as well as an Internet link to RSA 275:37; and 

 VIII. Permit an employee to electronically sign or acknowledge alterations to such employee's wage and hour records. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

