 HB 257 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0187

 06/04

 

HOUSE BILL 257

 

AN ACT prohibiting political advocacy in public schools.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits:

 

 I. Schools from advocating for or against any political candidate or measure on the ballot within the district.

 

 II. Instruction that advocates for or against any political doctrine, or that subjects any political position to ridicule.

 

 III. Denial of any student's freedom of speech.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0187

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT prohibiting political advocacy in public schools

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Political Advocacy in Schools Prohibited. Amend RSA 191 by inserting after section 5 the following new section:

 191:6 Political Advocacy in Schools Prohibited. 

 I. No public school shall campaign for or against any political candidate or measure that is on a ballot within that district.

 II. No employee of a public school shall advocate for or against any political doctrine nor subject any political position to ridicule while instructing students.

 III. No student shall be deprived of the right to freedom of speech or freedom of the press, unless that expression is not protected under the First Amendment.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

