 HB 289 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0536

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 289

 

AN ACT relative to including electrical storage facilities in the definition of energy facility.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harrington, Straf. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds certain electrical storage facilities to the definition of energy facility.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0536

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to including electrical storage facilities in the definition of energy facility.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Energy Facility; Definition; Electrical Storage Facility. Amend RSA 162-H:2, VII(g) to read as follows:

 (g) An electrical storage facility with a peak storage capacity of 30 megawatt-hours or greater. 

 (h) Any other facility and associated equipment that the committee determines requires a certificate, consistent with the findings and purposes of RSA 162-H:1, either on its own motion or by petition of the applicant or 2 or more petitioners as defined in RSA 162-H:2, XI. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

