 HB 279 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0450

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 279

 

AN ACT relative to the maximum allowable vehicle gross weight for a combination of truck-tractor and single semi-trailer with 4 or more axles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9; Rep. Crawford, Carr. 4; Sen. Hennessey, Dist 1

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill increases the maximum gross weight allowed on any tandem axle for a combination of truck-tractor and single semi-trailer with 4 or more axles that carries forest products.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0450

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the maximum allowable vehicle gross weight for a combination of truck-tractor and single semi-trailer with 4 or more axles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Motor Vehicles; Maximum Gross Weight. Amend RSA 266:18-b, III(g) to read as follows:

 (g) For a combination of truck-tractor and single semi-trailer with 4 or more axles, the weight on any single axle shall not exceed 22,400 pounds and the weight on any tandem axle shall not exceed 36,000 pounds, and the weight of any tri-axle shall not exceed 54,000 pounds. For a combination of truck-tractor and single semi-trailer with 4 or more axles that is carrying forest products, the weight on any tandem axle shall not exceed 40,000 pounds.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

