 HB 290 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0440

 08/10

 

HOUSE BILL 290

 

AN ACT relative to policies required for health facilities and special health care service licenses.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McLean, Hills. 44; Rep. Berry, Hills. 44; Rep. Warden, Hills. 15

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill exempts certain health facilities that exclusively provide services to persons making direct payment from requirements on written policies for providing services.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0440

 08/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to policies required for health facilities and special health care service licenses.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Health Care Facilities and Special Health Care Service Licenses. Amend RSA 151:2-f, I to read as follows:

 I. Adopt and enforce a written policy to assure that the facility provides its services to all persons who require the services the facility provides regardless of the source of payment for the services provided to any person, unless the facility exclusively provides services to persons who make direct payment for services. For purposes of this paragraph, a direct payment is one that is paid directly by the patient and is not reimbursed or otherwise paid by a third party.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

