 HB 222-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0260

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 222-FN

 

AN ACT authorizing New Hampshire municipalities to issue decals for motor vehicle plates to municipal officers.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Belanger, Rock. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds New Hampshire municipalities to the list of organizations approved to issue decals for multi-use plates, provided that such decals are issued solely to municipal officers upon showing of proof of office.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0260

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT authorizing New Hampshire municipalities to issue decals for motor vehicle plates to municipal officers.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Multi-Use Decal Plates; Authorized Organizations. Amend RSA 261-B:9 by inserting after paragraph XV the following new paragraph:

 XVI. New Hampshire municipalities, provided that such decals are issued solely to municipal officers upon showing of proof of office.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0260

 12/8/20

 

HB 222-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT authorizing New Hampshire municipalities to issue decals for motor vehicle plates to municipal officers.

 

FISCAL IMPACT:

 The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation, as introduced, has a total fiscal impact of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

 Department of Safety

 

