 HB 201 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0385

 10/06

 

HOUSE BILL 201

 

AN ACT relative to review by the insurance department of coverage for pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. McBeath, Rock. 26

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the commissioner of insurance to review the implementation of the requirement for coverage of pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders as adopted by 2019, 277 (SB 244-FN) and to report to the legislature.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0385

 10/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to review by the insurance department of coverage for pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Insurance; Certain Biologically-based Mental Illnesses; Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders; Review and Report. The commissioner of the insurance department shall review the implementation of the requirement in RSA 417-E:1, II as amended by 2018, 277 to provide insurance coverage for pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders, when treatment, including the use of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy, is ordered by a physician. Following such review, the commissioner shall issue a report, not later than November 1, 2021, to the chairpersons of the house and senate standing committees with jurisdiction over insurance matters.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

