 HB 303 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0421

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 303

 

AN ACT relative to required pay.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Seaworth, Merr. 20

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill exempts ski and snowboard employees at ski resorts from receiving required pay from an employer, provided that such employees receive other compensation that is at least equal to their rate of pay.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0421

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to required pay.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Payment of Wages; Required Pay. Amend RSA 275:43-a to read as follows:

 275:43-a Required Pay. On any day an employee reports to work at an employer's request, he or she shall be paid not less than 2 hours' pay at his or her regular rate of pay; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to employees of counties or municipalities [or ski and snowboard instructional employees at ski resorts, provided that these employees receive other compensation that is at least equal to their rate of pay, and provided further that]. This section shall also not apply to ski and snowboard employees at ski resorts, provided that these employees receive other compensation that is at least equal to their rate of pay.  No employer who makes a good faith effort to notify an employee not to report to work shall be liable to pay wages under this section. However, if the employee reports to work after the employer's attempt to notify him or her has been unsuccessful or if the employer is prevented from making notification for any reason, the employee shall perform whatever duties are assigned by the employer at the time the employee reports to work.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

