 HB 399 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0510

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 399

 

AN ACT relative to the energy consumption reduction goal.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harrington, Straf. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill changes the focus of the New Hampshire's energy consumption reduction goal to greenhouse gas emissions, rather than fossil fuels.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0510

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the energy consumption reduction goal.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Findings. The general court finds that:

 I. Greenhouse gas emissions are the primary driver of global climate change.

 II. Not all fossil fuel sources emit greenhouse gases at the same rate and therefore contribute to climate change at different rates and should be measured accordingly.

 III. The state should prioritize investments in renewable energy at state facilities to decrease greenhouse gas emissions most effectively.

 2 Energy Consumption Reduction Goal; Reports. Amend RSA 21-I:14-c, I to read as follows:

 I. Each state department shall identify cost-effective measures to reduce [fossil fuel consumption] greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent by 2025 in state buildings, on a square foot basis, compared to a 2005 baseline. Implementation of any measures shall be subject to the appropriate budgetary process and approval. Cost effectiveness for the purposes of this section shall mean a return on investment based on energy savings and reduced operational costs within the expected lifetime of the measure. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

