 HB 382 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0499

 10/11

 

HOUSE BILL 382

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the utility rate structure of demand charges.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Leishman, Hills. 24; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a commission to study the utility rate structure of demand charges.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0499

 10/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a commission to study the utility rate structure of demand charges.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Public Utilities; Rates and Charges; Commission to Study the Utility Rate Structure of Demand Charges. Amend RSA 378 by inserting after section 28 the following new section:

 378:28-a Commission to Study the Utility Rate Structure of Demand Charges.

 I. There is established a commission to study the utility rate structure of demand charges. The commission shall examine demand charges utilities charge seasonal high demand businesses, such as the ski industry and certain construction industries, and the basis for determining and setting the rates for demand costs whether based on a customer's monthly peak usage or other factors.

 II. The commission shall consist of the following members:

 (a) One member of the house science technology and energy committee, appointed by the speaker of the house.

 (b) One member of the senate energy and natural resources committee, appointed by the president of the senate.

 (c) One representative from the public utilities commission, appointed by the chair.

 (d) One representative of an industry which is subject to the demand charges, appointed by the governor.

 (e) One representative of a utility company that charges demand charges, appointed by the governor.

 III. Legislative members of the commission shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the commission.

 IV. The commission may solicit input from any person or entity the commission deems relevant to its study.

 V. The members of the commission shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the commission shall be called by the house member. The first meeting of the commission shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.

 VI The commission shall make a report with its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation on or before November 1, 2022 to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library.

 2 Prospective Repeal. RSA 378:28-a, relative to the commission to study the utility rate structure of demand charges, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date.

 I. Section 2 of this act shall take effect November 1, 2022.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect upon its passage.

