 HB 305 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0373

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 305

 

AN ACT relative to motorist service signs on limited access highways.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Public Works and Highways

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill deletes a limitation on the placement of motorist service signs on limited access highways.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0373

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to motorist service signs on limited access highways.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Limited Access Highways; Placement of Motorist Service Signs. Amend RSA 230:49, I to read as follows:

 I. The location of essential motorist services, including food, fuel, lodging, camping, and attractions, on connecting service roads within 3 miles of the intersection with the limited access highway, within 5 miles for a campground, within 20 miles for an attraction, or within one mile of the intersection in urban compact areas, may be indicated to users of the limited access facility by appropriate signs, the specifications of which shall be determined by the commissioner of transportation. The distance specified shall be measured by computing the travel length from the terminal of an exit ramp to the nearest point along the public highway where the nearest existing driveway entrance to the service is reached. Additional motorist service signs may be placed in advance of intersections on limited access highways [from the Massachusetts border to Concord and additional attraction signs may be placed north of Concord on I-93 and I-89]. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

