 HB 346 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0250

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 346

 

AN ACT relative to the funding source for the domestic violence programs fund.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Edwards, Rock. 4

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that a portion of the marriage license fee shall be deposited in the general fund rather than the fund for domestic violence grant programs. The bill directs certain funds from parking violations to the domestic violence grant program.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0250

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the funding source for the domestic violence programs fund.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Dedicated Funds; Special Fund for Domestic Violence Programs. Amend RSA 6:12, I(b)(12) to read as follows:

 (12) Moneys received under [RSA 457:29] RSA 265:69, I(j) and RSA 236:134, which shall be credited to the special fund for domestic violence programs. 

 2 Domestic Violence Grant Program. Amend RSA 173-B:15 to read as follows:

173-B:15 Fund for Domestic Violence Grant Program. A special fund for domestic violence programs is established. The sole purpose of the fund shall be to provide revenues for the domestic violence program established in RSA 173-B:16, and shall not be available for any other purpose. The state treasurer shall deposit in the fund all [fees] moneys received by the [department under RSA 457:29] state for violations of RSA 265:69, I(j), relative to parking spaces designated for persons with walking disabilities, and RSA 236:134, relative to parking spaces equipped with electric vehicle charging stations [in the fund]. All moneys deposited in the fund shall be continually appropriated for the purposes of the domestic violence grant program and shall not lapse. 

 3 Marriage License Fee. Amend RSA 457:29 to read as follows:

 457:29 Marriage License Fee. The fee for the marriage license shall be $50 to be paid by the parties entering into the marriage. The clerk shall forward $43 from each fee to the [department of health and human services for the purposes of RSA 173-B:15] state treasurer for deposit in the general fund. The clerk shall retain the remaining $7 as the fee for making the records of notice, issuing the certificate of marriage, and forwarding the $43 portion of the marriage license fee. 

 4 Special Marriage Officiant License. Amend RSA 457:32-b, I to read as follows:

 I. The secretary of state may issue a special marriage officiant license, which shall temporarily authorize an individual to solemnize a marriage in this state. Any individual who applies for the special marriage officiant license shall register with the secretary of state, complete the registration form prescribed by the secretary of state, and submit an $85 fee to the department of state. The secretary of state shall forward $80 of the fee to the [department of health and human services for deposit in the fund for domestic violence programs, established in RSA 173-B:15] state treasurer for deposit in the general fund, and shall retain the remainder of the fee for administrative costs associated with issuance of the license. 

 5 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

