 HB 342 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0348

 04/05

 

HOUSE BILL 342

 

AN ACT relative to the taking of game by certain lever-action firearms.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Roy, Rock. 32; Rep. Verville, Rock. 2; Rep. Love, Rock. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Fish and Game and Marine Resources

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows the taking of game with certain lever-action firearms.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0348

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the taking of game by certain lever-action firearms.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Fish and Game; Lawful Methods of Taking. Amend RSA 207:3, I to read as follows:

 I. Wildlife shall be taken in the daytime between 1/2 hour before sunrise and 1/2 hour after sunset with a gun, firearm, muzzleloader, or air rifle, fired at arm's length, [or] bow and arrow or crossbow, or a lever-action carbine chambered in .357, .44 Magnum, or .45 Colt in any area where hunting is restricted to handgun or pistol, unless otherwise specifically permitted. An air rifle may be used to take small game but shall not be used to take moose, bear, turkey, or deer. The executive director shall specify the method and manner of taking small game with an air rifle in rules adopted pursuant to RSA 541-A. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

