 HB 352 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0502

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 352

 

AN ACT relative to operation of recreational vehicles on state highways.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Leishman, Hills. 24

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the commissioner of the department of safety to adopt rules relative to the safe operation of recreational vehicles on state roads and highways.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0502

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to operation of recreational vehicles on state highways.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Commissioner of Safety; Rulemaking; Recreational Vehicles. Amend RSA 21-P:14 by inserting after paragraph X the following new paragraph:

 XI. The commissioner of safety shall adopt rules, pursuant to RSA 541-A, relative to the safe operation of recreational vehicles as defined in RSA 216-I:1, VIII on state roads and highways. Such rules may include provisions for certification of drivers of such vehicles.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

