 HB 323 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0505

 06/04

 

HOUSE BILL 323

 

AN ACT relative to a statewide student assessment report.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. J. Osborne, Rock. 4; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires schools to provide parents and teachers with an annual report of individual student performance on the statewide assessment.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0505

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to a statewide student assessment report.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Education Improvement and Assessment; Program Established; Goals. Amend RSA 193-C:3 by inserting after paragraph IV the following new paragraph:

 V. Each school shall provide parents or guardians and teachers with an annual report that includes individual student performance on the statewide assessment as soon as practicably possible after the test is taken, but no later than June 30. The commissioner may grant an exception to the June 30 deadline. The report shall be provided to parents in an informative and instructional manner to help children meet challenging state academic standards and advance student learning.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

