 HB 353 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0333

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 353

 

AN ACT establishing a credit under RSA 77 for tax paid on income subject to taxation in another state.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Abbas, Rock. 8; Rep. Bershtein, Rock. 2; Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. Doucette, Rock. 8

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows a taxpayer of the tax on interest and dividends to receive credit for taxes paid to another state of the United States, upon the taxpayer's interest and dividends income received from sources within that other state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0333

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a credit under RSA 77 for tax paid on income subject to taxation in another state.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subdivision; Interest and Dividends Taxation; Credit for Out-of-state Taxes Paid. Amend RSA 77 by inserting after section 50 the following new subdivision:

Credit for Out-of-state Taxes Paid

 77:51 Credit for Taxes Paid to Other States. A taxpayer of this state who was a resident individual, estate, trust, or entity taxable under RSA 77:3 during any portion of a taxable year shall receive credit against the tax imposed by RSA 77:1 for that taxable year, for taxes imposed by and paid to, another state, territory, or possession of the United States or the District of Columbia, upon the taxpayer's interest and dividends income received from sources within that state, territory, or district during that portion of that taxable year. In no case shall the credit allowed by this section exceed the portion of tax to New Hampshire otherwise imposed by this chapter and attributable to the taxable interest and dividends received from sources within such other state, territory, possession, or district.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

