 HB 393 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0484

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 393

 

AN ACT relative to the indication of blood type on drivers' licenses and nondrivers' picture identification cards.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Bean, Belk. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the department of safety, division of motor vehicles to give holders of all drivers' licenses and nondrivers' picture identification cards the option to display their blood type on such licenses and cards.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0484

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the indication of blood type on drivers' licenses and nondrivers' picture identification cards.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Motor Vehicles; Administration of Motor Vehicle Laws; Powers and Duties; Public Law 109-13 Compliant Identification Card. Amend RSA 260:21-a, II to read as follows:

 II. The identification card shall bear the name, address, date of birth, blood type (optional), gender indicated as "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for "other," veteran's status for the purposes of identification for receiving benefits and services under New Hampshire law (optional), organ donor status (optional), picture, and signature of the applicant. 

 2 Motor Vehicles; Administration of Motor Vehicle Laws; Powers and Duties; Enhanced Identification Card. Amend RSA 260:21-b, II to read as follows:

 II. The identification card shall bear the name, address, date of birth, blood type (optional), gender indicated as "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for "other," veteran's status for the purposes of identification for receiving benefits and services under New Hampshire law (optional), organ donor status (optional), picture, and signature of the applicant. 

 3 Motor Vehicles; Drivers' Licenses; Application. Amend RSA 263:5, II(b) to read as follows:

 (b) A physical description of the applicant, including gender indicated by checking either "M" for "male," "F" for female," or "X" for "other," height, weight, eye and hair color, and blood type (optional); 

 4 Motor Vehicles; Drivers' Licenses; Form of License. Amend RSA 263:40, II and III to read as follows:

 II. Drivers' licenses compliant with Public Law 109-13 issued pursuant to RSA 263:14-b shall bear the name, address, date of birth, blood type (optional), gender indicated as "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for "other," veteran's status for the purposes of identification for receiving benefits and services under New Hampshire law (optional), organ donor status (optional), picture, and signature of the applicant. The driver's license card shall bear an approved security marking indicating that it was issued in compliance with Public Law 109-13 and is therefore acceptable for federal identification purposes. 

 III. Enhanced drivers' licenses issued pursuant to RSA 263:14-c shall bear the name, address, date of birth, blood type (optional), gender indicated as "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for "other," veteran's status for the purposes of identification for receiving benefits and services under New Hampshire law (optional), organ donor status (optional), picture, and signature of the applicant. The driver's license card shall bear an approved security marking indicating that it is an enhanced driver's license. 

 5 Motor Vehicles; Drivers' Licenses; Commercial Licensing; Application for License. Amend RSA 263:90, I(b) to read as follows:

 (b) A physical description of the applicant, including gender indicated by checking either "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for other,' height, weight, eye and hair color, and blood type (optional);

 6 Motor Vehicles; Drivers' Licenses; Commercial Driver License. Amend RSA 263:91, I(c) to read as follows:

 (c) A physical description of the licensee including gender indicated as "M" for "male," "F" for "female," or "X" for "other," height, weight, eye[,] and hair color, and blood type (optional); 

 7 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

