 HB 335 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0290

 08/04

 

HOUSE BILL 335

 

AN ACT requiring bottled drinking water sold to the public to meet the same maximum contaminant levels established for public drinking water.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Grassie, Straf. 11; Rep. Levesque, Straf. 4; Rep. Cohen, Hills. 28

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires bottled water to comply with the maximum contaminant levels in the New Hampshire safe drinking water act.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0290

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring bottled drinking water sold to the public to meet the same maximum contaminant levels established for public drinking water.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Short Title. This act may be known as the safe bottled drinking water act of 2021.

 2 Purpose Statement. The general court finds that water is essential to life and it is a fundamental responsibility of government to protect the public health and safety of the people of the state. It is the intent of the legislature that bottled drinking water sold in the state meet the same maximum contaminant levels for public drinking water pursuant to RSA 485.

 3 Container Sterilization and Sanitation; Water Source; Maximum Contaminant Levels. Amend RSA 143:16 to read as follows:

 143:16 Container Sterilization and Sanitation; Water Source. All containers used in the manufacture of beverages, other than cider manufacturers regulated by the department of agriculture, shall be cleaned and sterilized in such manner as may be provided in the rules adopted under this chapter. All materials used in the manufacture of beverages shall be pure and wholesome and shall be stored, handled, transported, and kept in such manner as to protect them from spoilage, contamination, and unwholesomeness. Manufacturers of bottled water shall only utilize a source of water. [for which a permit has been issued by the department of environmental services in accordance with RSA 485:3, XI] That complies with the requirements in rules adopted under RSA 143:6. All sources of bottled water in New Hampshire that began service on or after August 8, 1997 shall be approved by the department of environmental services in accordance with RSA 485:3, XI. All products shall comply as to composition, labeling, conditions of manufacture, transportation, storage, handling, and sale with existent statutory provisions relating thereto and with rules adopted under this chapter. All bottled water manufactured in the state shall comply with requirements specified in departmental rules adopted under RSA 143:6, and the maximum contaminant levels established under RSA 485.

 4 New Section; Sale of Bottled Water; Maximum Contaminant Levels. Amend RSA 143 by inserting after section 16 the following new section: 

 143:16-a Sale of Bottled Water Manufactured Out of State. All bottled water for retail sale, manufactured or bottled out of state, shall comply with the requirements specified in departmental rules under RSA 143:6, and maximum contaminant levels established under RSA 485. The department shall implement rules under RSA 541-A relative to bottled water manufactured out of state that are in compliance with any federal regulations on the matter.

 5 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

