 HB 301 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0418

 04/05

 

HOUSE BILL 301

 

AN ACT relative to the compensation appeals board.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Seaworth, Merr. 20

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that the per diems paid to compensation appeals board members shall be prorated to an hourly rate for other board-related work not involving a hearing.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0418

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the compensation appeals board.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Workers' Compensation; Compensation Appeals Board. Amend RSA 281-A:42-a, III to read as follows:

 III. Attorney members of the board shall receive $400 per diem and all other members of the board shall each receive $250 per diem for each day devoted to the [work] hearings of the board and shall be reimbursed for necessary travel expenses. Said per diems shall be prorated to an hourly rate for other related work performed by board members.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

