 HB 339 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0262

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 339

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study air quality in school buildings.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Sullivan, Sull. 1; Rep. Schuett, Merr. 20

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study air quality in school buildings.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0262

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study air quality in school buildings.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study New Hampshire school building air quality and recommend policies to improve school environmental factors and related considerations that influence chronic absenteeism, academic performance, and short- and long-term health performance indicators.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) Three members of the senate, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 III. The committee shall solicit the testimony of any person it deems relevant to its study, including:

 (a) The commissioner of the department of education, or designee.

 (b) The commissioner of the department of health and human services, or designee.

 (c) The president of the NEA-NH, or designee.

 (d) The president of AFT-NH, or designee.

 (e) The president of the New Hampshire School Nurses Association, or designee.

 (f) The president of the New Hampshire School Administrators Association, or designee.

 (g) The president of the New Hampshire School Boards Association, or designee.

 3 Duties. The committee shall:

 I. Review the history of environmental and air quality incidents that have affected New Hampshire schools.

 II. Review the status of New Hampshire schools' ability to provide adequate ventilation to reduce the transmission of airborne pathogens

 III. Research the effect of air quality in New Hampshire school buildings on student success and safety.

 IV. Review current New Hampshire laws and rules relative to environmental and air quality in schools.

 V. Review current laws and rules relative to environmental and air quality in schools in other states.

 VI. Recommend changes to current laws and rules to reduce environmental factors that could negatively affect students and staff.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Four members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2022.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

