 HB 360 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0307

 10/05

 

HOUSE BILL 360

 

AN ACT relative to the rental of shared living facilities.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Frost, Straf. 16

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the process for termination of a rental of a shared facility and the remedies for tenants.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0307

 10/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the rental of shared living facilities.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Rental of Shared Facilities; Termination. Amend RSA 540-B:3 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. The process for termination of tenancy of a shared facility described by paragraphs I-III shall apply in place of the eviction process detailed in RSA 540. Shared facilities governed by this chapter shall not be subject to the eviction process of RSA 540. 

 2 Rental of Shared Facilities; Remedies. Amend RSA 540-B:7 to read as follows:

 540-B:7 Remedies. 

 I. Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the remedies set forth in RSA 540-A:4, however, a tenant of a shared facility must identify that their rental is governed by RSA 540-B in any court filings in order to be entitled to these remedies.

 II. A tenant shall not enjoy the remedies set forth in RSA 540-A:4 in regard to tenant lockout if the owner or agent of the owner of the shared facility has complied with the requirements of RSA 540-B:3. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

