 HB 330 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0514

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 330

 

AN ACT relative to sports book locations.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Wallace, Rock. 12; Rep. Bordes, Belk. 3; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9; Rep. Belanger, Rock. 9; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Trottier, Belk. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows tier II sports wagers and removes the limit on the number of operations sports book locations.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0514

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to sports book locations.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Sports Book Retail Operations. Amend RSA 287-I:5 to read as follows:

 287-I:5 Sports Book Retail Operations. The commission and its agents are further authorized to operate physical sports book retail locations within the state for the purposes of accepting tier I, tier II, and tier III sports wagers from authorized bettors and paying prizes relating to those wagers. The sports book retail locations may be co-located with other commercial businesses or general commercial retail locations. [No more than 10 sports book retail locations may be in operation at any given time.]

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

