 HB 321 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0358

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 321

 

AN ACT requiring school districts to submit an annual report concerning gifted students.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Shaw, Hills. 16; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2; Rep. Hobson, Rock. 35; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires all public schools to submit annual reports to the department of education detailing the policies and procedures that are in place to identify and accommodate the needs of gifted students.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0358

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring school districts to submit an annual report concerning gifted students.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Instruction of Pupils; Gifted Students; Report. Amend RSA 189 by inserting after section 29-a the following new section:

 189:29-b Identification and Accommodation of Gifted Students.

 I. In this section, "gifted student" means a student identified as having unique academic, artistic, or athletic potential according to assessments selected and administered locally.

 II. No later than August 1 of each year, every New Hampshire public school shall submit a narrative report to the department of education detailing what policies and procedures are in place to identify and accommodate the unique needs of gifted students. The format, length, and substance of the report shall be at the discretion of the local school. If no such policies or procedures exist, then said report shall so state.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

