 HB 386 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0408

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 386

 

AN ACT relative to the operation of certain watercraft on Wachipauka Pond.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Sykes, Graf. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits the use of petroleum-powered powerboats and watercraft on Wachipauka Pond in Warren.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0408

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the operation of certain watercraft on Wachipauka Pond.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Restrictions on Boating; Wachipauka Pond. Amend RSA 270 by inserting after section 133 the following new section:

 270:134 Wachipauka Pond (Meader Pond).  No person shall operate any boat equipped with a petroleum-powered motor upon the waters of Wachipauka Pond in the town of Warren. An electric power motor rated no more than 55 pounds may used on Wachipauka Pond, provided one of the operators is a holder of a walking disability plate issued by the department of motor vehicles under RSA 261:88. Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a violation.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

