 HB 308 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0542

 10/04

 

HOUSE BILL 308

 

AN ACT relative to broadband access to pole attachments.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Rep. Nelson, Carr. 5; Rep. Crawford, Carr. 4; Rep. Deshaies, Carr. 6; Rep. J. MacDonald, Carr. 6; Rep. Knirk, Carr. 3; Sen. Bradley, Dist 3; Sen. Kahn, Dist 10 

 

COMMITTEE: Science, Technology and Energy

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides for payment of pole replacement costs when necessary to accommodate the provisioning of broadband Internet services.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0542

 10/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to broadband access to pole attachments.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Findings. The general court finds that the rapid expansion of broadband is critical to New Hampshire citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic due to the reliance on distance learning for education and the reliance on telemedicine for health care.

 2 New Paragraph; Public Utilities; Pole Attachments; Broadband Access. Amend RSA 374:34-a by inserting after paragraph VIII the following new paragraph:

 IX. Where a pole replacement is necessary for make ready to accommodate the provisioning of broadband services in areas that have no infrastructure capable of delivering Internet access with service that has a minimum download speed of 100 Mbps and is symmetrical, the pole owner shall pay the replacement cost proportionate to the age of the pole, based on the average life of a pole. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

