 HB 319 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0356

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 319

 

AN ACT requiring students in the university and community college systems of New Hampshire to pass the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services civics naturalization test.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Lang, Belk. 4; Rep. Rouillard, Hills. 6; Rep. Shaw, Hills. 16; Rep. Hobson, Rock. 35; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires university system and community college system students, as a requirement for graduation, to pass the 2020 version of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services naturalization test.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0356

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT requiring students in the university and community college systems of New Hampshire to pass the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services civics naturalization test.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; University System of New Hampshire; Civics Graduation Requirement. Amend RSA 187-A by inserting after section 16-b the following new section:

 187-A:16-c Civics Graduation Requirement. Every student admitted or transferring to an institution in the university system of New Hampshire on or after January 1, 2022 shall, as a requirement for graduation and in addition to any other graduation requirements, show proof of having passed the 2020 version of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services naturalization test with a score of 70 of better, or shall be required take and pass such test with a score of 70 or greater.

 2 New Section; Community College System of New Hampshire; Civics Graduation Requirement. Amend RSA 188-F by inserting after section 6 the following new section: 

 188-F:6-a Every student admitted or transferring to an institution in the community college system of New Hampshire on or after January 1, 2022 shall, as a requirement for graduation and in addition to any other graduation requirements, show proof of having passed the 2020 version of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services naturalization test with a score of 70 of better, or shall be required take and pass such test with a score of 70 or greater.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

