 HB 361 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0353

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 361

 

AN ACT relative to gold star family decals for motor vehicles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Graham, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill authorizes the New Hampshire office of veterans services to issue free of charge gold star family decals for motor vehicles owned by certain family members of persons killed while on duty in United States armed services.

 

 This bill is a request of the New Hampshire department of military affairs and veterans services.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0353

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to gold star family decals for motor vehicles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Multi-Use Veterans Decal Plates; Decals; Fee. Amend RSA 261-C:2, III to read as follows:

 III. The department of military affairs and veterans services division of veterans services may issue decals to eligible veterans who qualify under this chapter [and to gold star family members pursuant to RSA 261-C:3-a,] and shall collect a fee of $10 for the set of decals. The division of veterans services shall provide gold star family decals to those who qualify under RSA 261-C:3-a free of charge. Revenue collected under this paragraph shall be restricted revenue to the division of veterans services and shall be nonlapsing and continually appropriated to the division. 

 2 Gold Star Family Decals; Fee. Amend RSA 261-C:3-a, V to read as follows:

 V. Pursuant to RSA 261-C:2, the department of military affairs and veterans services division of veterans services [may issue gold star family decals to eligible family members and shall collect a fee of $10 for the set of decals. Revenue collected under this paragraph shall be restricted revenue to the division of veterans services and shall be nonlapsing and continually appropriated to the division.] shall provide gold star family decals to those who qualify under this section free of charge.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

