 HB 306 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0551

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 306

 

AN ACT relative to revenue estimates while operating under emergency orders caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Major, Rock. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Ways and Means

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill directs the house ways and means committee to consider revenue estimates for the state while operating under the emergency executive orders issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The committee shall regularly update the estimates throughout fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0551

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to revenue estimates while operating under emergency orders caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Revenue Estimates While Operating under the Emergency Orders Issued in Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic for Fiscal Years 2021 - 2023. 

 I. The house ways and means committee shall consider what the unrestricted revenue estimates should be while operating under the emergency executive orders issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and after the orders expire.

 II. The estimates shall be based on current law and economic conditions and shall be updated regularly throughout FY 2021, FY 2022, and FY 2023 to reflect current conditions and economic forecasts.

 III. The revised estimates for the 3 fiscal years shall include all unrestricted funds for:

 (a) The combined general fund and the education trust fund.

 (b) Highway funds.

 (c) Fish and game funds.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

