 HB 370 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0318

 11/10

 

HOUSE BILL 370

 

AN ACT relative to the election of electors of the president and vice-president of the United States.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Belanger, Rock. 9; Rep. Ankarberg, Straf. 10; Rep. Abramson, Rock. 37; Rep. Yokela, Rock. 33

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that electors of the president and vice president of the United States shall be designated by the party that receives a plurality of votes in a plurality of executive council districts, and in the absence of such a plurality, shall be designated by the New Hampshire senate.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0318

 11/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the election of electors of the president and vice-president of the United States.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Electors of the President and Vice-President. Amend RSA 653:2 to read as follows:

 653:2 Electors of the President and Vice-President. At the state general election in [1980] 2024 and at the state general election every fourth year thereafter, the voters of the state shall elect the number of electors of the president and vice-president of the United States to which the state is entitled. The electors of the party who received a plurality of votes in a plurality of New Hampshire executive council districts shall be designated the electors of the President and Vice President of the United States by the secretary of state and governor. If there is no plurality of executive council districts, the New Hampshire senate shall designate electors.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

