 HB 329 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0416

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 329

 

AN ACT relative to storage of rail cars containing hazardous materials.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Thompson, Coos 1

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill regulates the storage of rail cars containing hazardous materials.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0416

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to storage of rail cars containing hazardous materials.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Storage of Hazardous Materials in Rail Cars. Amend RSA 21-P by inserting after section 18 the following new section:

 21-P:18-a Storage of Hazardous Materials in Rail Cars.

 I. Storage of rail cars containing hazardous materials on state owned or privately owned rail lines or sidings shall be placarded with information concerning the current or previous contents of the rail car along with placarding that indicates whether the rail car is currently full or empty.

 II. In no case shall rail cars that currently contain or previously contained hazardous materials be stored on rail lines within the state for more than 72 hours from time of arrival unless they are part of a gathering train scheduled for transit through the state or delivery to industrial clients within the state.

 III. No rail car that currently contains or previously contained hazardous materials shall be stored within 1500 feet of an occupied dwelling or active public way.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

