 HB 341 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0370

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 341

 

AN ACT relative to permissible residential units in a residential zone.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Vann, Hills. 24; Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. Caplan, Merr. 6; Rep. McWilliams, Merr. 27

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires that local legislative bodies permit by right certain single-family dwellings in residential districts to be used for up to four residential units.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0370

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to permissible residential units in a residential zone.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Zoning; Grant of Power; Single Family Lots. Amend RSA 674:16 by inserting after paragraph V the following new paragraph:

 VI. In the exercise of the powers granted under this subdivision, the local legislative body of a city, town, or county in which there are located unincorporated towns or unorganized places shall allow as a matter of right any single-family dwelling in a residential zoning district served by water and sewer or which can be connected to water and sewer by any means to be configured as a single 4-unit building, 2 duplex units, 4 single units, one duplex unit with 2 accessory dwelling units, 4 townhouses, or one single family house with 3 accessory dwelling units. The lot and yard standards, setbacks, parking requirements, and lot coverage shall be nor more restrictive than those required for a single family dwelling. This paragraph shall apply to new construction or rehabilitation of existing buildings.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

