 HB 404 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0538

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 404

 

AN ACT relative to the perambulation of town lines.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harrington, Straf. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill deletes the frequency provision from the requirement that selectmen perambulate the lines between the towns.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0538

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the perambulation of town lines.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Perambulation of Town Lines. Amend RSA 51:2 to read as follows:

 51:2 Perambulation of Town Lines. The lines between the towns in this state shall be perambulated, and the marks and bounds renewed, [once in every 7 years forever,] by the selectmen of the towns, or by such persons as they shall in writing appoint for that purpose as often as the selectmen determine is necessary. In lieu of perambulation of the town lines, methods such as satellite imagery may be used. 

 2 Additional Perambulation. Amend RSA 51:3 to read as follows:

 51:3 [Additional Perambulation] Notice to Adjoining Town. If the selectmen of any town deem it necessary that the town lines be perambulated or any marks and bounds renewed [at other times than at the regular perambulation provided for by RSA 51:2] they may give notice to the selectmen of the town adjoining and the procedure for said perambulation or renewing of bounds shall be the same as that provided in RSA 51:2[, 4-7] - RSA 51:7. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

