 HB 458-LOCAL - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0676

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 458-LOCAL

 

AN ACT relative to provision of menstrual products for students in need.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Rouillard, Hills. 6; Rep. L. Ober, Hills. 37; Rep. Comtois, Belk. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill:

 

 I. Permits school health departments to make reasonable efforts to secure, through grants and donations, and distribute menstrual hygiene products to students in need.

 

 II. Repeals the provision that requires public middle schools and high schools to provide menstrual hygiene products at no cost.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0676

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to provision of menstrual products for students in need.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Menstrual Hygiene Products For Students In Need. Amend RSA 200 by inserting after section 40-b the following new section:

 200:40-c Menstrual Hygiene Products For Students In Need. 

 I. If a school health services department determines that there are students in need of menstrual hygiene products within its school population, it may make reasonable efforts to provide and make available, at no cost or minimal cost, menstrual hygiene products for those students in need. 

 II. Menstrual hygiene products may include sanitary napkins and tampons. 

 III. A non-profit or community based organization may donate menstrual hygiene products to the school, or the school district may purchase such products with grant money or other state or local funding reimbursement program.

 2 Repeal. RSA 189:16-a, relative to menstrual hygiene products, is repealed.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

