 HB 452 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0675

 05/11

 

HOUSE BILL 452

 

AN ACT precluding the secretary of state from running for another office while serving as secretary of state.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Bixby, Straf. 17; Rep. Van Houten, Hills. 45; Rep. Cornell, Hills. 18; Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. Amanda Bouldin, Hills. 12

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits the secretary of state from running for another state office while serving as secretary of state.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0675

 05/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT precluding the secretary of state from running for another office while serving as secretary of state.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Secretary of State. Amend RSA 5:1 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. No person serving as secretary of state shall be eligible to file a declaration of candidacy or primary petition for nomination at the primary for governor, representative to the general court, state senator, counselor, county commissioner, county sheriff, county attorney, county treasurer, register of deeds, or register of probate. Nor shall a person serving as secretary of state be eligible for nomination to such office.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

