 HB 447 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0664

 08/05

 

HOUSE BILL 447

 

AN ACT relative to scuba equipment.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Harb, Rock. 14

 

COMMITTEE: Resources, Recreation and Development

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires a lessor of scuba equipment to also lease underwater GPS equipment.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0664

 08/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to scuba equipment.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Scuba Equipment. Amend RSA 270 by inserting after section 32-a the following new section:

 270:32-b Scuba Equipment. Any lessor of scuba equipment, shall also lease underwater GPS equipment for navigation.

 2 Scuba Equipment Lessors; Penalty. Amend RSA 270:32 to read as follows:

 270:32 Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of RSA 270:31 or RSA270:32-b shall be subject to the following penalties:

 I. If the offense occurs prior to November 1, 1973, he shall be fined not more than $25 for each offense. 

 II. If the offense occurs on or after November 1, 1973, he shall be guilty of a violation for each offense. 

 III. The director of state police may prohibit further scuba activity, in addition to the penalties prescribed in either paragraph I or II, until the provisions of RSA 270:31 and RSA 270:32-b have been complied with. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

