 HB 461 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0674

 10/11

 

HOUSE BILL 461

 

AN ACT relative to motorcycle auxiliary lamping, and adding the New Hampshire Motorcyclists' Rights Organization to the traffic safety commission.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Packard, Rock. 5

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits motorcycles to have a maximum of 4 auxiliary driving lamps mounted to the front of the motorcycle. This bill also adds a representative of the New Hampshire Motorcyclists' Rights Organization to the traffic safety commission.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0674

 10/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to motorcycle auxiliary lamping, and adding the New Hampshire Motorcyclists' Rights Organization to the traffic safety commission.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Motor Vehicles; Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Lamps. Amend RSA 266:37, II to read as follows:

 II. Except as provided in paragraph II-a, any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed 3 auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands, with such measurements to be made from the ground to the center of the lens, except that vehicles while used in the winter maintenance of ways may be driven with auxiliary head lamps higher than 42 inches above the surface upon which the vehicle stands provided such head lamps shall be aimed so that the top of the beam of light produced by these head lamps does not exceed the height of a horizontal line which is 42 inches high at a distance of 75 feet ahead of the head lamps of said vehicle. 

 II-a. Motorcycles as defined in RSA 259:63 may be equipped with not to exceed 4 auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front of the motorcycle at a height of not more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the motorcycle stands, with such measurements to be made from the ground to the center of the lens.

 3 New Subparagraph; Traffic Safety Commission. Amend RSA 21-P:64, I(a) by inserting after subparagraph (14) the following new subparagraph:

 (15) One representative of the New Hampshire Motorcyclists' Rights Organization.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

