 HB 432 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0555

 06/04

 

HOUSE BILL 432

 

AN ACT relative to the offenses that prevent employment in a school.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Cornell, Hills. 18; Rep. Tanner, Sull. 9; Rep. Woodcock, Carr. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill adds human trafficking to the offenses that prevent a person from being hired by a school administrative unit, school district, chartered public school, or public academy.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0555

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the offenses that prevent employment in a school.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 School Employee and Designated School Volunteer Criminal History Records Check. Amend RSA 189:13-a,V to read as follows:

 V. Any person who has been charged pending disposition for or convicted of any violation or attempted violation of RSA 630:1; 630:1-a; 630:1-b; 630:2; 632-A:2; 632-A:3; 632-A:4; 633:1; 633:7; 639:2; 639:3; 645:1, II or III; 645:2; 649-A:3; 649-A:3-a; 649-A:3-b; 649-B:3; or 649-B:4, or a reasonably equivalent offense in an out-of-state jurisdiction; or any violation or any attempted violation of RSA 650:2 where the act involves a child in material deemed obscene; in this state, or under any statute prohibiting the same conduct in another state, territory, or possession of the United States, shall not be hired by a school administrative unit, school district, chartered public school, or public academy. The superintendent of the school administrative unit or the chief executive officer of the chartered public school or public academy may deny a selected applicant a final offer of employment if such person has been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or felony, in addition to those listed above. The governing body of a school district, chartered public school, or public academy shall adopt a policy relative to hiring practices based on the results of the criminal history records check and report of misdemeanors and felonies received under paragraph II. Such policy may include language stating that any person who has been convicted of any misdemeanor, or any of a list of misdemeanors, may not be hired. Such policy may also include language stating that any person who has been convicted of any felony, or any of a list of felonies, shall not be hired. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

