 HB 484 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0647

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 484

 

AN ACT relative to budget committee recommendations on warrant articles.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Pauer, Hills. 26; Rep. Silber, Belk. 2; Rep. Yakubovich, Merr. 24; Rep. Notter, Hills. 21

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits a budget committee from providing a recommendation next to the affected warrant article unless the warrant article includes an appropriation or expenditure.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0647

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to budget committee recommendations on warrant articles.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Budget Committee; Recommendation. Amend RSA 32:5 by inserting after paragraph V-b the following new paragraph:

 V-c. A budget committee or advisory budget committee shall provide a recommendation printed in the town, school district, or village district warrant next to the affected warrant article only when the warrant article, submitted by the governing body or by petition, includes an appropriation or expenditure.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

