 HB 421 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0564

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 421

 

AN ACT relative to organ donation on a driver's license.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Torosian, Rock. 14; Rep. Janigian, Rock. 8; Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4; Rep. Spillane, Rock. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies that a person's decision to donate his or her own body, organ, or tissue upon death is not subject to amendment or revocation after such person's death.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0564

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to organ donation on a driver's license.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Uniform Anatomical Gift Act; Honoring an Individual's Decision to Donate. Amend RSA 291-A:23 to read as follows:

 291-A:23 Honoring an Individual's Decision to Donate. A person's decision to make a donation of that person's own body, organ, or tissue after death shall be honored and may not be revoked or amended by anyone after such individual's death. In the absence of a revocation or amendment by the individual prior to death, health care providers and procurement organizations shall act in accordance with the donor's decision and may take appropriate actions to effect the anatomical gift. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

