 HB 412 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0467

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 412

 

AN ACT making an appropriation to the department of environmental services for the purpose of funding public water system projects.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Buco, Carr. 2; Rep. Umberger, Carr. 2; Rep. Leishman, Hills. 24; Rep. Hatch, Coos 6; Sen. Bradley, Dist 3; Sen. Watters, Dist 4

 

COMMITTEE: Finance

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill makes appropriations to the department of environmental services for the purpose of funding public water system projects under RSA 486-A.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0467

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT making an appropriation to the department of environmental services for the purpose of funding public water system projects.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Department of Environmental Services; Appropriation. There is hereby appropriated to the department of environmental services the sum of $500,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2022 and $500,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2023, which shall be nonlapsing, for the purpose of funding public water system projects under RSA 486-A. The governor is authorized to draw a warrant for said sum out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect July 1, 2021.

