 HB 496-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0494

 11/08

 

HOUSE BILL 496-FN

 

AN ACT relative to license plate covers.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. S. Pearson, Rock. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits persons from attaching or permitting to be attached to a license plate any coverings that are colored, smoked, or tinted.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0494

 11/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to license plate covers.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Certificates of Title and Registration of Vehicles; Misuse or Failure to Display Plates. Amend RSA 261:176, II to read as follows:

 II. Any person who applies or permits to be applied any covering to a license plate that is colored, smoked, or tinted shall be guilty of a violation. 

 III. The fine for a violation of this section shall be $150. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0494

 1/8/21

 

HB 496-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to license plate covers.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ X ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ ] None

   

 

   

Estimated Increase / (Decrease)

  STATE:

FY 2021

FY 2022

FY 2023

FY 2024

   Appropriation

$0

$0

$0

$0

   Revenue

$0

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

   Expenditures

$0

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

Indeterminable

  Funding Source:

 [ X ] General [ ] Education [ X ] Highway [ ] Other 

   

METHODOLOGY:

This bill establishes a violation level offense for persons who apply coverings to a license plate that are colored, smoked, or tinted. It is not possible to estimate how many new cases may arise as a result of this change, if any, however the Judicial Branch estimates average cost of violation level cases to be $53 in FY 2022. It should be noted that average case cost estimates for FY 2022 are based on data that is more than ten years old and does not reflect changes to the courts over that same period of time or the impact these changes may have on processing the various case types. Additionally, violations of this statute carry a fine of $150. Therefore, this bill may increase revenue to the state highway fund.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Judicial Branch

 

