 HB 429 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0560

 10/11

 

HOUSE BILL 429

 

AN ACT relative to college or university student voting.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Baldasaro, Rock. 5; Rep. Cambrils, Merr. 9; Rep. Pearl, Merr. 26; Rep. Wallace, Rock. 12; Rep. Moffett, Merr. 9

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides for in-state tuition at any institution in the university system of New Hampshire or the community college system for any person who is registered to vote in this state. The bill also removes college or university identification cards from valid photo identification for obtaining a ballot.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0560

 10/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to college or university student voting. 

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; State College and University System; In-state Tuition for Persons Registered to Vote. Amend RSA 187-A by inserting after section 20-d the following new section:

 187-A:20-e In-state Tuition for Persons Registered to Vote. The board of trustees shall provide the in-state undergraduate tuition rate at any institution in the university system of New Hampshire for up to 4 years for any person who submits to the board satisfactory written proof that such person is registered to vote in this state. To receive the in-state rate, such person shall submit to the board proof of registration to vote prior to the beginning of each academic year. 

 2 New Section; Community College System; In-state Tuition. Amend RSA 188-F by inserting after section 16-b the following new section:

 188-F:16-c In-state Tuition for Persons Registered to Vote. The board of trustees shall provide the in-state undergraduate tuition rate at any institution in the community college system of New Hampshire for any person who submits to the board satisfactory written proof that such person is registered to vote in this state. To receive the in-state rate, such person shall submit to the board proof of registration to vote prior to the beginning of each academic year. 

 3 Obtaining a Ballot; College and University Identification. Amend RSA 659:13, II(a)(5) to read as follows:

 (5) A valid student identification card if:

 (A) The card is issued by:

 (i) [A college, university, or career school in New Hampshire and approved to operate or licensed to operate in New Hampshire.

 (ii)] A public high school in New Hampshire.

 [(iii)] (ii) A nonpublic high school in New Hampshire accredited by a private school accrediting agency that is recognized by the department of education.

 [(iv) Dartmouth College.

 (v) A college or university operated by the university system of New Hampshire or the community college system of New Hampshire.]

 (B) The card has either an expiration date or an issuance date that has not been exceeded by a period of more than 5 years, [except that, at all elections prior to September 1, 2018, student identification cards without a date of expiration or issuance shall be accepted].

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

