 HB 403 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0453

 08/06

 

HOUSE BILL 403

 

AN ACT relative to the sale of alcoholic beverages in refillable containers.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Prout, Hills. 37; Rep. Conley, Straf. 13; Rep. Binford, Graf. 15; Rep. Belanger, Rock. 9; Rep. Bordes, Belk. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce and Consumer Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows the sale of alcoholic beverages in misbranded refillable containers at the direction of the buyer.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0453

 08/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the sale of alcoholic beverages in refillable containers.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Branding on Refillable Containers. Amend RSA 175 by inserting after section 2 the following new section:

 175:2-a Branding on Refillable Containers. Where the retail sale of any beverage in a refillable container has been authorized, a licensee may fill a container with a beverage that does not match the labeling on the container at the direction of the buyer.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

