 HB 468 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0588

 08/11

 

HOUSE BILL 468

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of political advocacy organization.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Lane, Merr. 12

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill modifies the definition of political advocacy organization for purposes of political expenditure and contribution laws.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0588

 08/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the definition of political advocacy organization.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Political Expenditures and Contributions; Definition of Political Advocacy Organization. Amend RSA 664:2, XXII to read as follows:

 XXII. "Political advocacy organization" means any entity, including but not limited to, an organization described in RSA 664:2, III, that [spends $5,000] makes expenditures of $2,500 or more in a calendar year to pay for [a communication that is functionally equivalent to express advocacy because, when taken as a whole, such communication is likely to be interpreted by a reasonable person only as advocating the election or defeat of] communications that refer to a clearly identified candidate or candidates or the success or defeat of a measure or measures, [taking into account whether the communication involved mentions a candidacy or a political party, or takes a position on a candidate's character, qualifications, or fitness for office] and are publicly distributed within 60 days before a primary or general election to an audience that includes members of the electorate for the office sought by the candidate or one or more of the candidates, regardless of whether the communication or communications expressly advocate a vote for or against the candidate or candidates or for the success or defeat of a measure or measures. In this paragraph, expenditures do not include expenses for candidate forums, including, but not limited to, spending for advertisements, marketing, or event expenses.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

