 HB 409 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0487

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 409

 

AN ACT relative to filling certain vacancies among members of school boards and other school district offices.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Rung, Hills. 21; Rep. Danielson, Hills. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that any vacancies occurring in school district offices between the beginning of the filing period and the election shall not be filled by official ballot until the following year.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0487

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to filling certain vacancies among members of school boards and other school district offices.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; School District Elections; Vacancies. Amend RSA 671:33 by inserting after paragraph IV the following new paragraph:

 V. Any vacancy which occurs between the beginning of the filing period and the district election shall not be filled by official ballot until the annual district election the following year.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

