 HB 451-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0672

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 451-FN

 

AN ACT allowing the New Hampshire Masons to issue decals for motor vehicle plates.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Packard, Rock. 5; Rep. Burt, Hills. 39; Rep. Shurtleff, Merr. 11; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits the Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons in New Hampshire to issue decals for multi-use plates.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0672

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT allowing the New Hampshire Masons to issue decals for motor vehicle plates.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Multi-Use Decal Plates; Authorized Organizations. Amend RSA 261-B:9 by inserting after paragraph XV the following new paragraph:

 XVI. The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons in New Hampshire.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0672

 12/15/20

 

HB 451-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT allowing the New Hampshire Masons to issue decals for motor vehicle plates.

 

FISCAL IMPACT:

 The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation, as introduced, has a total fiscal impact of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

 Department of Safety

 

