 HB 415 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0606

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 415

 

AN ACT relative to municipal estimates of expenditures and revenues.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yakubovich, Merr. 24; Rep. Piemonte, Rock. 4

 

COMMITTEE: Municipal and County Government

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires governing bodies to publish statements of estimated expenditures and revenues for the next fiscal year in full line item detail.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0606

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to municipal estimates of expenditures and revenues.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Budget Preparation; Estimate of Expenditures and Revenues. Amend RSA 32:4 to read as follows:

 32:4 Estimate of Expenditures and Revenues. All municipal officers, administrative officials, and department heads, including officers of such self-sustaining departments as water, sewer, and electric departments, shall prepare statements of estimated expenditures and revenues for the ensuing fiscal year, and shall submit such statements to their respective governing bodies, at such times and in such detail as the governing body may require, but no fewer than 30 days prior to the public hearing for its budget. The governing body shall publish the draft budget and revised versions, after making any updates to the budget, within 5 days. Budgets shall be published in full line item detail, and made available in CSV and PDF formats for easy viewing and use by common spreadsheet programs. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

