 HB 428 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0572

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 428

 

AN ACT relative to the procedures for apportioning electoral districts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wolf, Merr. 5; Rep. Ebel, Merr. 5; Rep. M. Smith, Straf. 6; Rep. Gordon, Graf. 9; Rep. Gay, Rock. 8

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes procedures for apportioning electoral districts after the decennial census.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0572

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the procedures for apportioning electoral districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Chapter; Procedures for Apportioning Electoral Districts. Amend RSA by inserting after chapter 662-A the following new chapter:

CHAPTER 662-B

PROCEDURES FOR APPORTIONING ELECTORAL DISTRICTS

 662-B:1 Map Drawing Preparations. 

 I. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting after the decennial census shall establish an Internet website which shall, at a minimum, post audio and video recordings of any meeting held by such committee, provide advance notice of any public forms, post meeting agendas and minutes, and solicit public comment. Such website shall be hosted by the secretary of state.

 II. Prior to drawing any maps, any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall publish a report which shall detail such committee's general priorities and intentions for balancing map drawing requirements.

 III. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting may employ staff for assistance with communications, information technology, and language access. 

 IV. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall solicit testimony from county and municipal election officials on local demographics and communities of interest within 90 days of being established. Such a committee may hold public hearings to solicit such information.

 662-B:2 Public Input and Community Participation.

 I. Upon releasing any preliminary redistricting plans, any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall hold at least 10 public meetings, including at least one in each county of state, to gather public input on the preliminary plans.

 II. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall provide at least 20 days' notice prior to holding any public meeting pursuant to paragraph I, and shall make reasonable efforts to schedule meetings outside of regular working hours in ADA-compliant venues, and to provide virtual attendance opportunities.

 III. Members of the public submitting oral or written testimony at any public meeting held pursuant to this section shall disclose whether they are required to register as a lobbyist pursuant to RSA 15.

 662-B:3 Preliminary and Final Plans.

 I. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall release a preliminary plan at least 30 days prior to holding a public hearing on such plan. Such plan shall include maps that can be viewed by the public on the committee's website.

 II. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall release any proposed final plan at least 7 days prior to holding any vote on such plan. Any final plan shall include maps that can be viewed by the public on the committee's website.

 III. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall include in its final report a summary of all public input, all draft plans and data considered and used by the committee, an analysis of the plan's adherence to map drawing criteria, and any additional information used by the committee during map drawing.

 IV. If any committee member votes against adoption of a final plan, the committee report described in paragraph III shall include a dissenting report explaining such decision.

 V. Any legislative committee appointed to consider redistricting shall submit its final plan to the state legislature, for final adoption pursuant to state law.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

