 HB 514 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0792

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 514

 

AN ACT relative to ballot column rotation.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wells, Merr. 25; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill repeals the requirement that the average deviation from equal rotation for first party column position on ballots be no greater than one percent.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0792

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to ballot column rotation.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Preparation of Voting Materials; Ballots; Party Columns. Amend RSA 656:5, III to read as follows:

 III. The generic column rotation plans shall be based on a reasonably balanced rotation of party columns within and across all non-floterial state representative districts, those being the smallest representative districts to which each voting place is apportioned pursuant to part I, article 11 of the New Hampshire constitution. Consideration shall also be given to reasonably minimize any obvious, substantial, and avoidable imbalances in column rotation within senate districts. [The average deviation from equal rotation for the first party column position, measured across the state as a whole and based on population according to the last decennial federal census, shall be as close to 0 percent as is practicable but in no event greater than 1 percent.] Once generic column rotation plans are established the secretary of state shall publish such plans to the department's website. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

