 HB 52 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0636

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 52

 

AN ACT apportioning congressional districts.

 

SPONSORSF Rep. B. Griffin, Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Special Committee on Redistricting

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes new United States House of Representative districts in accordance with the latest federal decennial census.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0636

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT apportioning congressional districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 U.S. Representative Districts. RSA 662:1 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 662:1 U.S. Representative Districts. The state is divided into 2 districts for the choosing of representatives in the congress of the United States. Each district may elect one representative. The districts shall be constituted as follows: 

 I. The first district is constituted of: 

 (a) The counties of:

 (1) Carroll, and 

 (2) Strafford; and 

 (b) In the county of Belknap, the towns and city of: 

 (1) Alton, 

 (2) Barnstead, 

 (3) Belmont, 

 (4) Gilford, 

 (5) Gilmanton, 

 (6) Laconia, 

 (7) Meredith, 

 (8) New Hampton, 

 (9) Sanbornton, and 

 (10) Tilton; and 

 (c) In the county of Grafton, the town of: 

 (1) Campton; and 

 (d) In the county of Hillsborough, the towns and city of: 

 (1) Bedford, 

 (2) Goffstown, 

 (3) Manchester, and 

 (4) Merrimack; and 

 (e) In the county of Merrimack, the town of:

 (1) Hooksett; and 

 (f) In the county of Rockingham, the towns and city of:

 (1) Auburn, 

 (2) Brentwood, 

 (3) Candia, 

 (4) Chester, 

 (5) Danville, 

 (6) Derry, 

 (7) East Kingston, 

 (8) Epping, 

 (9) Exeter, 

 (10) Fremont, 

 (11) Greenland, 

 (12) Hampstead, 

 (13) Hampton, 

 (14) Hampton Falls, 

 (15) Kensington, 

 (16) Kingston, 

 (17) Londonderry, 

 (18) New Castle, 

 (19) Newfields, 

 (20) Newington, 

 (21) Newmarket, 

 (22) Newton, 

 (23) North Hampton, 

 (24) Nottingham, 

 (25) Plaistow, 

 (26) Portsmouth, 

 (27) Raymond, 

 (28) Rye, 

 (29) Sandown, 

 (30) Seabrook, 

 (31) South Hampton, and 

 (32) Stratham. 

 II. The second district is constituted of: 

 (a) The counties of: 

 (1) Cheshire, 

 (2) Coos, and 

 (3) Sullivan; and 

 (b) In the county of Belknap, the town of: 

 (1) Center Harbor; and 

 (c) In the county of Grafton, the towns, city, and unincorporated place of: 

 (1) Alexandria, 

 (2) Ashland, 

 (3) Bath, 

 (4) Benton, 

 (5) Bethlehem, 

 (6) Bridgewater, 

 (7) Bristol, 

 (8) Canaan, 

 (9) Dorchester, 

 (10) Easton, 

 (11) Ellsworth, 

 (12) Enfield, 

 (13) Franconia, 

 (14) Grafton, 

 (15) Groton, 

 (16) Hanover, 

 (17) Haverhill, 

 (18) Hebron, 

 (19) Holderness, 

 (20) Landaff, 

 (21) Lebanon, 

 (22) Lincoln, 

 (23) Lisbon, 

 (24) Littleton, 

 (25) Livermore, 

 (26) Lyman, 

 (27) Lyme, 

 (28) Monroe, 

 (29) Orange, 

 (30) Orford, 

 (31) Piermont, 

 (32) Plymouth, 

 (33) Rumney, 

 (34) Sugar Hill, 

 (35) Thornton, 

 (36) Warren, 

 (37) Waterville Valley, 

 (38) Wentworth, and 

 (39) Woodstock; and 

 (d) In the county of Hillsborough, the towns and city of:

 (1) Amherst, 

 (2) Antrim, 

 (3) Bennington, 

 (4) Brookline, 

 (5) Deering, 

 (6) Francestown, 

 (7) Greenfield, 

 (8) Greenville, 

 (9) Hancock, 

 (10) Hillsborough, 

 (11) Hollis, 

 (12) Hudson, 

 (13) Litchfield, 

 (14) Lyndeborough, 

 (15) Mason, 

 (16) Milford, 

 (17) Mont Vernon, 

 (18) Nashua, 

 (19) New Boston, 

 (20) New Ipswich, 

 (21) Pelham, 

 (22) Peterborough, 

 (23) Sharon, 

 (24) Temple, 

 (25) Weare, 

 (26) Wilton, 

 (27) Windsor; and 

 (e) In the county of Merrimack, the towns and cities of: 

 (1) Allenstown, 

 (2) Andover, 

 (3) Boscawen, 

 (4) Bow, 

 (5) Bradford, 

 (6) Canterbury, 

 (7) Chichester, 

 (8) Concord, 

 (9) Danbury, 

 (10) Dunbarton, 

 (11) Epsom, 

 (12) Franklin, 

 (13) Henniker, 

 (14) Hill, 

 (15) Hopkinton, 

 (16) Loudon, 

 (17) Newbury, 

 (18) New London, 

 (19) Northfield, 

 (20) Pembroke, 

 (21) Pittsfield, 

 (22) Salisbury, 

 (23) Sutton, 

 (24) Warner, 

 (25) Webster, and 

 (26) Wilmot; and 

 (f) In the county of Rockingham, the towns of: 

 (1) Atkinson, 

 (2) Deerfield, 

 (3) Northwood, 

 (4) Salem; and 

 (5) Windham. 

 2 Application. This act shall in no way disqualify any person from any elective office to which he or she was elected prior to the effective date of this act.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

