 HB 513 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0788

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 513

 

AN ACT relative to the degree granting authority of Signum university and relative to the authority of the higher education commission.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Ladd, Graf. 4; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires approval by the higher education commission as a prerequisite to the granting of a degree by an educational institution. The bill also authorizes Signum university to grant degrees, subject to approval by the higher education commission.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0788

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the degree granting authority of Signum university and relative to the authority of the higher education commission.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Higher Education Corporations; Granting of Degrees. Amend RSA 292:8-h, II to read as follows:

 II. No educational institution shall grant degrees unless approved by the higher education commission and authorized by name to do so by an act of the legislature.

 2 Signum University; Authority to Grant Degrees. Signum University is hereby granted authority to confer degrees upon its graduates subject to the authority of the higher education commission under RSA 21-N:8-a. The degrees shall be specified by the higher education commission as provided in RSA 292:8-h, III.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

