 HB 561 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0729

 04/11

 

HOUSE BILL 561

 

AN ACT relative to potential jurors excused from jury duty due to a lack of residency in the county of jury service.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Kofalt, Hills. 4

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the clerk of the court to compile a list of the names of any persons who request to be excused from jury service for lack of residence in the county of jury service and transmit the names on the list to the secretary of state who shall publish the list on the secretary of state's website.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0729

 04/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to potential jurors excused from jury duty due to a lack of residency in the county of jury service.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Jurors; Excuse for Lack of Residence in County. Amend RSA 507-A by inserting after section 11 the following new section:

 507-A:11-a Excuse for Lack of Residence in County of Jury Service. The clerk of the court shall compile a list of the names of any persons who request to be excused from jury service for lack of residence in the county of jury service as required under RSA 500-A:7-a, II. Every 6 months, the clerk shall transmit the names on the list to the secretary of state who shall publish the list on the secretary of state's website and make the list available to the public upon request. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

