 HB 582 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0772

 10/04

 

HOUSE BILL 582

 

AN ACT relative to prescriptions for the treatment of attention deficit disorder or attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Walz, Merr. 23; Rep. Woods, Merr. 23

 

COMMITTEE: Health, Human Services and Elderly Affairs

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows for certain prescriptions for treatment of attention deficit disorder or attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity to be for 90 days.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0772

 10/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to prescriptions for the treatment of attention deficit disorder or attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Controlled Drug Act; Sale by Pharmacists; Attention Deficit Disorder and Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity; Prescriptions. Amend RSA 318-B:9, IV to read as follows:

 IV. No prescription shall be filled for more than a 34-day supply upon any single filling for controlled drugs of schedules II or III; provided, however, that for controlled drugs, in schedules II or III, that are commercially packaged for dispensing directly to the patient, such as metered sprays and inhalers, liquids packaged in bottles with calibrated droppers, and certain topical preparations packaged with metered dispensing pumps may be filled for greater than a 34-day supply, but not more than 60 days, utilizing the smallest available product size, in order to maintain the dosing integrity of the commercially packaged containers; and, provided that with regard to amphetamines and methylphenidate hydrochloride, a prescription may be filled for up to a [60-day] 90-day supply if either such prescription specifies it is being used for the treatment of attention deficit disorder[,] or attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity, or a 60-day supply if such prescription specifies it is being used for narcolepsy. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

