 HB 51 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0634

 11/04

 

HOUSE BILL 51

 

AN ACT apportioning state senate districts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. B. Griffin, Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Special Committee on Redistricting

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes new state senate districts in accordance with the latest federal decennial census.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0634

 11/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT apportioning state senate districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 State Senate Districts. RSA 662:3 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 662:3 State Senate Districts. The state is divided into 24 districts for the choosing of state senators, each of which may elect one senator. The districts shall be constituted as follows: 

 I. Senatorial district number 1 is constituted of Atkinson & Gilmanton Academy Grant, Bath, Bean's Grant, Bean's Purchase, Benton, Berlin, Bethlehem, Cambridge, Carroll, Chandler's Purchase, Clarksville, Colebrook, Columbia, Crawford's Purchase, Cutt's Grant, Dalton, Dix's Grant, Dixville, Dummer, Easton, Errol, Erving's Location, Franconia, Gorham, Green's Grant, Hadley's Purchase, Jefferson, Kilkenny, Lancaster, Landaff, Lincoln, Lisbon, Littleton, Livermore, Low and Burbank's Grant, Lyman, Martin's Location, Milan, Millsfield, Monroe, Northumberland, Odell, Pinkham's Grant, Pittsburg, Randolph, Sargent's Purchase, Second College Grant, Shelburne, Stark, Stewartstown, Stratford, Success, Sugar Hill, Thornton, Thompson and Meserve's Purchase, Wentworth's Location, Whitefield, and Woodstock. 

 II. Senatorial district number 2 is constituted of Alexandria, Ashland, Bridgewater, Bristol, Campton, Center Harbor, Danbury, Dorchester, Ellsworth, Grafton, Groton, Haverhill, Hebron, Hill, Holderness, Meredith, New Hampton, Orange, Orford, Piermont, Plymouth, Rumney, Sanbornton, Tilton, Warren, Wentworth, and Wilmot. 

 III. Senatorial district number 3 is constituted of Albany, Bartlett, Brookfield, Chatham, Conway, Eaton, Effingham, Freedom, Hale's Location, Hart's Location, Jackson, Madison, Middleton, Milton, Moultonborough, Ossipee, Sandwich, Tamworth, Tuftonboro, Wakefield, Waterville Valley, and Wolfeboro. 

 IV. Senatorial district number 4 is constituted of Barrington, Dover, Rollinsford, and Somersworth. 

 V. Senatorial district number 5 is constituted of Canaan, Charlestown, Claremont, Cornish, Enfield, Hanover, Lebanon, Lyme, and Plainfield. 

 VI. Senatorial district number 6 is constituted of Alton, Barnstead, Farmington, Gilmanton, New Durham, and Rochester. 

 VII. Senatorial district number 7 is constituted of Andover, Belmont, Boscawen, Canterbury, Franklin, Gilford, Laconia, Northfield, Salisbury, and Webster. 

 VIII. Senatorial district number 8 is constituted of Acworth, Antrim, Bennington, Bradford, Croydon, Deering, Francestown, Goshen, Grantham, Hillsborough, Langdon, Lempster, Marlow, New London, Newbury, Newport, Springfield, Stoddard, Sunapee, Sutton, Unity, Washington, Weare, and Windsor. 

 IX. Senatorial district number 9 is constituted of Bedford, Dublin, Fitzwilliam, Greenfield, Hancock, Jaffrey, Lyndeborough, Mont Vernon, New Boston, Peterborough, Richmond, Sharon, Temple, and Troy. 

 X. Senatorial district number 10 is constituted of Alstead, Chesterfield, Gilsum, Harrisville, Hinsdale, Keene, Marlborough, Nelson, Roxbury, Sullivan, Surry, Swanzey, Walpole, Westmoreland, and Winchester. 

 XI. Senatorial district number 11 is constituted of Amherst, Merrimack, Milford, and Wilton. 

 XII. Senatorial district number 12 is constituted of wards 1, 2, and 5 in Nashua, and Brookline, Greenville, Hollis, Mason, New Ipswich, and Rindge. 

 XIII. Senatorial district number 13 is constituted of wards 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 in Nashua. 

 XIV. Senatorial district number 14 is constituted of Auburn, Hudson, and Londonderry. 

 XV. Senatorial district number 15 is constituted of Concord, Henniker, Hopkinton, and Warner. 

 XVI. Senatorial district number 16 is constituted of wards 1, 2, and 12 in Manchester, and Bow, Candia, Dunbarton, and Hooksett. 

 XVII. Senatorial district number 17 is constituted of Allenstown, Chichester, Deerfield, Epsom, Loudon, Northwood, Nottingham, Pembroke, Pittsfield, Raymond, and Strafford. 

 XVIII. Senatorial district number 18 is constituted of wards 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 in Manchester, and Litchfield. 

 XIX. Senatorial district number 19 is constituted of Derry, Hampstead, and Windham. 

 XX. Senatorial district number 20 is constituted of wards 3, 4, 10, and 11 in Manchester, and Goffstown. 

 XXI. Senatorial district number 21 is constituted of Durham, Lee, Madbury, Newfields, Newington, Newmarket, and Portsmouth. 

 XXII. Senatorial district number 22 is constituted of Atkinson, Pelham, Plaistow, and Salem. 

 XXIII. Senatorial district number 23 is constituted of Brentwood, Chester, Danville, East Kingston, Epping, Exeter, Fremont, Kingston, and Sandown. 

 XXIV. Senatorial district number 24 is constituted of Greenland, Hampton, Hampton Falls, Kensington, New Castle, Newton, North Hampton, Rye, Seabrook, South Hampton, and Stratham. 

 2 Application. The changes in state senate districts established by this act shall not affect constituencies or terms of office of senators presently in office. The state senate districts established by this act shall be in effect for the purpose of electing senators at the 2022 state general election. If there shall be a vacancy in a state senate district for any reason prior to the 2022 state general election, the vacancy shall be filled by and from the same state senate district that existed for the 2020 state general election. No provision of this act shall affect in any manner any of the proceedings of the membership of the senate of the general court that assembled for a biennial session in January 2021.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

