 HB 556 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0739

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 556

 

AN ACT relative to state-ordered counseling.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. Nutter-Upham, Hills. 33; Rep. M. Pearson, Rock. 34; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Rep. DiLorenzo, Rock. 17; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that neither state agencies nor the courts shall require individuals to participate in counseling that has no Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) medical code and thus is ineligible for insurance reimbursement.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0739

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to state-ordered counseling.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Child Welfare and Social Service Programs; Counseling. Amend RSA 161 by inserting after section 2-b the following new section: 

 161:2-c Child Welfare and Social Service Programs; Counseling. Nothing in this chapter or any other provision of law shall permit a state agency, including the state courts, or a public or private provider acting on behalf of a state agency, to require individuals to participate in counseling that has no CPT medical code, and thus is not a recognized form of mental health treatment, nor eligible for insurance reimbursement. 

 2 Parental Rights and Responsibilities; Parenting Plan; Court Ordered Counseling. Amend RSA 461-A:4, III to read as follows: 

 III. If the parties are insured and the parenting plan directs the parties to participate in counseling, the court shall give due consideration to selecting a counselor who [accepts direct payment from the parties' health insurance carrier] is a participating provider in the parties' health insurance carrier’s network. In no case shall the court require the parties to participate in any type of counseling that has no CPT medical code, and thus is not a recognized form of mental health treatment, nor eligible for insurance reimbursement. 

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage. 

