 HB 537 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0790

 11/08

 

HOUSE BILL 537

 

AN ACT relative to the date of the state primary.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Wells, Merr. 25; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Election Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows for the state primary election to be held on the first Tuesday in September when necessary to comply with federal requirements for sending ballots to UOCAVA voters 45 days before a general election.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0790

 11/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the date of the state primary.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Election of Officers and Delegates; Election Dates; State Primary Election. Amend RSA 653:8 to read as follows:

 653:8 State Primary Election. The state primary election shall be held on the second Tuesday in September of every even-numbered year, except in years in which the general election is scheduled to occur less than 7 days after the first of November, in which case the state primary election shall be held on the first Tuesday in September. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

