 HB 521-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0773

 06/05

 

HOUSE BILL 521-FN

 

AN ACT relative to the chartered public school annual grant for leased space.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Mooney, Hills. 21; Rep. Comtois, Belk. 7; Rep. Healey, Hills. 21; Rep. Cordelli, Carr. 4; Sen. Reagan, Dist 17; Sen. Daniels, Dist 11

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill increases the limit on the amount of the annual grant for leased space provided to a chartered public school.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0773

 06/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the chartered public school annual grant for leased space.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 School Building Aid; Annual Grant for Leased Space. Amend the introductory paragraph of RSA 198:15-hh, I to read as follows:

 I. The amount of the annual grant for a lease to any school district duly organized, any city maintaining a school department within its corporate organization, any cooperative school district as defined in RSA 195:1, or any receiving district operating an area school as defined in RSA 195-A:1, shall be a sum equal to 30 percent of the amount of the annual payment of the lease incurred, for the cost of leasing permanent space in a building or buildings not owned by the school district or school administrative unit which is used for the operation of a high school vocational technical education program, to the extent approved by the state board of education. For the purposes of this section, the amount of the annual grant for a lease to a vocational technical education center shall be calculated in the same manner as a cooperative school district. The amount of the annual grant for a chartered public school authorized under RSA 194-B:3-a shall be a sum equal to 30 percent of the annual lease payment incurred for the cost of leasing space; provided that no annual grant for leased space provided to a chartered public school in accordance with this section shall exceed [$30,000] $50,000 in any fiscal year. The total amount of grants to schools pursuant to this section shall not exceed the state appropriation for leased space. If the amount appropriated is insufficient therefor, the appropriation shall be prorated proportionally among the schools eligible for a grant. Such lease agreements shall be eligible for grants under this section, provided all of the following conditions apply: 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0773

 1/8/21

 

HB 521-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to the chartered public school annual grant for leased space.

 

FISCAL IMPACT: [ ] State [ ] County [ ] Local [ X ] None

   

 

  METHODOLOGY:

This bill increases the annual grant cap for chartered public school leased space from $30,000 to $50,000, assumed to be effective in FY 2022. In FY 2021, 17 public charter school applied for lease aid, of which ten were capped at the current limit of $30,000. Aid payments are only made to the extent there is an appropriation. The current budget appropriated $200,000 in FY 2020 and $500,000 in FY 2021 for these payments. As this bill does not include an appropriation, it would not result in a direct impact to state expenditures.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

Department of Education

 

