 HB 548 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0742

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 548

 

AN ACT relative to the role of a guardian ad litem in cases where domestic violence is suspected or alleged.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. Read, Rock. 17; Rep. Gould, Hills. 7; Rep. Elliott, Rock. 8; Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien, Rock. 6; Rep. Pitre, Straf. 2; Rep. Ulery, Hills. 37; Rep. Cali-Pitts, Rock. 30; Rep. Altschiller, Rock. 19; Sen. Bradley, Dist 3

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that if domestic violence is suspected or alleged in a parenting case, the guardian ad litem (GAL} shall refer the victim to a local crisis center or domestic violence counselor. The bill also directs the GAL to determine whether law enforcement completed a lethality assessment protocol.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0742

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the role of a guardian ad litem in cases where domestic violence is suspected or alleged.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Parental Rights and Responsibilities; Guardians Ad Litem; Domestic Violence Screening. Amend RSA 461-A:16 by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph: 

 II-a. When a guardian ad litem is appointed to a parenting case in which domestic violence is suspected or alleged, the guardian ad litem shall promptly refer the relevant party to a local crisis center or assessment by a domestic violence counselor as defined in RSA 173-C:1 III and, in appropriate cases, comply with mandatory reporting requirements for child abuse under RSA 169-C:29. The guardian ad litem shall also determine whether law enforcement completed a lethality assessment protocol regarding any party to the proceeding. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

