 HB 53 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0635

 11/06

 

HOUSE BILL 53

 

AN ACT apportioning executive council districts.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. B. Griffin, Hills. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Special Committee on Redistricting

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes new councilor districts based on the latest federal decennial census.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0635

 11/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT apportioning executive council districts.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Councilor Districts. RSA 662:2 is repealed and reenacted to read as follows:

 662:2 Councilor Districts. The state is divided into 5 districts for the choosing of councilors, each of which may elect one councilor. The districts shall be constituted as follows: 

 I. Councilor district number 1 is constituted of the counties of Coos and Grafton, the unincorporated place of Hale's Location, the towns of Albany, Alton, Andover, Bartlett, Brookfield, Center Harbor, Chatham, Conway, Cornish, Croydon, Danbury, Eaton, Effingham, Freedom, Gilford, Grantham, Hart's Location, Hill, Jackson, Madison, Meredith, Middleton, Milton, Moultonborough, New Durham, New Hampton, New London, Newport, Ossipee, Plainfield, Sanbornton, Sandwich, Springfield, Sunapee, Tamworth, Tilton, Tuftonboro, Wakefield, Wilmot, and Wolfeboro, and the cities of Claremont and Laconia. 

 II. Councilor district number 2 is constituted of the towns of Acworth, Alstead, Barnstead, Belmont, Boscawen, Bradford, Canterbury, Charlestown, Chesterfield, Dublin, Durham, Farmington, Gilmanton, Gilsum, Goshen, Hancock, Harrisville, Henniker, Hinsdale, Hopkinton, Langdon, Lempster, Madbury, Marlborough, Marlow, Nelson, Newbury, Northfield, Rollinsford, Roxbury, Salisbury, Stoddard, Strafford, Sullivan, Surry, Sutton, Unity, Walpole, Warner, Washington, Webster, Westmoreland, and Winchester, and the cities of Concord, Dover, Franklin, Keene, Rochester, and Somersworth. 

 III. Councilor district number 3 is constituted of the towns of Atkinson, Brentwood, Chester, Danville, Derry, East Kingston, Epping, Exeter, Fremont, Greenland, Hampstead, Hampton, Hampton Falls, Kensington, Kingston, New Castle, Newfields, Newington, Newmarket, Newton, North Hampton, Pelham, Plaistow, Raymond, Rye, Salem, Sandown, Seabrook, South Hampton, Stratham, and Windham, and the city of Portsmouth. 

 IV. Councilor district number 4 is constituted of the towns of Allenstown, Auburn, Barrington, Bedford, Bow, Candia, Chichester, Deerfield, Epsom, Goffstown, Hooksett, Lee, Londonderry, Loudon, Northwood, Nottingham, Pembroke, and Pittsfield, and the city of Manchester. 

 V. Councilor district number 5 is constituted of the towns of Amherst, Antrim, Bennington, Brookline, Deering, Dunbarton, Fitzwilliam, Francestown, Greenfield, Greenville, Hillsborough, Hollis, Hudson, Jaffrey, Litchfield, Lyndeborough, Mason, Merrimack, Milford, Mont Vernon, New Boston, New Ipswich, Peterborough, Richmond, Rindge, Sharon, Swanzey, Temple, Troy, Weare, Wilton, and Windsor, and the city of Nashua. 

 2 Application. The changes in councilor districts established by this act shall not affect constituencies or terms of office of councilors presently in office. The councilor districts established by this act shall be in effect for the purpose of electing councilors at the 2022 state general election. If there shall be a vacancy in a councilor district for any reason prior to the 2022 state general election, the vacancy shall be filled by and from the same councilor district that existed for the 2020 state general election.

 3 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

