 HB 547 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0765

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 547

 

AN ACT relative to the opportunity for evidentiary hearings in parenting cases.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Gay, Rock. 8; Rep. M. Pearson, Rock. 34; Rep. Love, Rock. 6; Rep. Levesque, Straf. 4; Rep. Gould, Hills. 7; Rep. Cushman, Hills. 2; Rep. Andrew Bouldin, Hills. 12; Rep. Elliott, Rock. 8; Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien, Rock. 6; Rep. Vandecasteele, Rock. 8

 

COMMITTEE: Children and Family Law

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that in a parenting case under RSA 461-A, each party is entitled to at least one evidentiary hearing.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0765

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the opportunity for evidentiary hearings in parenting cases.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Paragraph; Determination of Parental Rights and Responsibilities; Procedure and Jurisdiction; Opportunity for Hearing. Amend RSA 461-A:3 by inserting after paragraph III the following new paragraph:

 IV. In any proceeding to determine parental rights and responsibilities, each parent is entitled to at least one hearing to present evidence and call witnesses. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

