 HB 559 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0709

 05/04

 

HOUSE BILL 559

 

AN ACT relative to state of emergency declarations.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Hopper, Hills. 2

 

COMMITTEE: Legislative Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the legislature to renew a state of emergency beyond the initial 21-day period.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0709

 05/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to state of emergency declarations.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 State of Emergency Declaration; Powers; Concurrence by the Legislature. Amend RSA 4:45, II to read as follows:

 II.(a) A state of emergency shall terminate automatically 21 days after its declaration unless it is renewed [under the same procedures set forth in paragraph I of this section. The governor may, by executive order,] by the legislature. The legislature may renew a state of emergency by concurrent resolution adopted by a majority vote of each chamber. The legislature may vote to renew a declaration of a state of emergency as many times as the [governor] legislature finds is necessary to protect the safety and welfare of the inhabitants of this state. 

 (b) If the governor finds that maintaining the state of emergency is no longer justified, the governor shall issue an executive order terminating the state of emergency. 

 (c) The legislature may terminate a state of emergency by concurrent resolution adopted by a majority vote of each chamber. [The governor's power to renew a declaration of a state of emergency shall terminate upon the adoption of a concurrent resolution under this subparagraph; provided, however, that such resolution] Failure of the legislature to pass a concurrent resolution renewing a state of emergency shall not preclude the governor from declaring a new emergency for different circumstances under paragraph I of this section. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

