 HB 563 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0782

 04/06

 

HOUSE BILL 563

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study a living wage and the utilization of public assistance among low wage workers and their families in New Hampshire.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Caplan, Merr. 6; Rep. Schultz, Merr. 18; Rep. Bartlett, Merr. 19; Rep. Van Houten, Hills. 45; Rep. Chretien, Hills. 42; Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Labor, Industrial and Rehabilitative Services

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill establishes a committee to study a living wage and the utilization of public assistance among low wage workers and their families in New Hampshire.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0782

 04/06

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT establishing a committee to study a living wage and the utilization of public assistance among low wage workers and their families in New Hampshire.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Committee Established. There is established a committee to study a living wage and the utilization of public assistance among low wage workers and their families in New Hampshire.

 2 Membership and Compensation.

 I. The members of the committee shall be as follows:

 (a) Three members of the house of representatives, at least one of whom shall be from the minority party, appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives.

 (b) Two members of the senate, at least one of whom shall be from the minority party, appointed by the president of the senate.

 II. Members of the committee shall receive mileage at the legislative rate when attending to the duties of the committee.

 3 Duties. The committee's study shall include, but not be limited to, determining minimally sufficient salaries in the various regions of the state based on cost-of living data, studying the growth and nature of the low-wage sector as defined by the above parameters, and measuring the costs of state services used by low-wage workers, and the effects of low-wage jobs on the local economy and communities.

 4 Chairperson; Quorum. The members of the study committee shall elect a chairperson from among the members. The first meeting of the committee shall be called by the first-named house member. The first meeting of the committee shall be held within 45 days of the effective date of this section. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.

 5 Report. The committee shall report its findings and any recommendations for proposed legislation to the speaker of the house of representatives, the president of the senate, the house clerk, the senate clerk, the governor, and the state library on or before November 1, 2021.

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect upon its passage.

