 HB 500 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0778

 06/11

 

HOUSE BILL 500

 

AN ACT relative to reducing school food waste and addressing child hunger.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Loughman, Rock. 21; Rep. M. Murray, Hills. 22; Rep. Mullen, Hills. 7; Rep. Kenney, Straf. 6; Sen. Sherman, Dist 24; Sen. Ward, Dist 8

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill permits a school to partner with a nonprofit to freeze leftover school food that was never served to send home with children who participate in a free or reduced price meals program.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0778

 06/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to reducing school food waste and addressing child hunger.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Section; Powers of School Districts; Reduction of School Food Waste. Amend RSA 194 by inserting after section 3-d the following new section:

 194:3-e Reduction of School Food Waste. A school may partner with a nonprofit to make leftover school food, that was prepared but never served, into frozen to-go meals. The school may send such meals home with children who participate in a free or reduced price meals program.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

