 HB 525-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0669

 04/10

 

HOUSE BILL 525-FN

 

AN ACT relative to the seizure of personal computers and other electronic devices in child sexual assault cases.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Marston, Hills. 19

 

COMMITTEE: Criminal Justice and Public Safety

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows the seizure of a personal computer or other electronic device that has been used for the possession, distribution, or manufacture of child sexual abuse images or child exploitation, based on probable cause and without a search warrant.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0669

 04/10

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to the seizure of personal computers and other electronic devices in child sexual assault cases.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Name of Act. This act shall be known as Blake's Law.

 2 New Section; Child Sexual Abuse Images; Seizure of Personal Computer or Other Electronic Device. Amend RSA 649-A by inserting after section 6 the following new section:

 649-A:6-a Seizure of Personal Computer or Other Electronic Device. A law enforcement officer who has probable cause to believe that a personal computer or other electronic device is being used to violate any provision of this chapter may, without obtaining a search warrant, seize such personal computer or other electronic device as evidence. 

 3 New Section; Computer Pornography and Child Exploitation Prevention; Seizure of Personal Computer or Other Electronic Device. Amend RSA 649-B by inserting after section 6 the following new section:

 649-B:7 Seizure of Personal Computer or Other Electronic Device. A law enforcement officer who has probable cause to believe that a personal computer or other electronic device is being used to violate any provision of this chapter may, without obtaining a search warrant, seize such personal computer or other electronic device as evidence.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect January 1, 2022.

 

LBA

 21-0669

 1/8/21

 

HB 525-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to the seizure of personal computers and other electronic devices in child sexual assault cases.

 

FISCAL IMPACT:

 The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation, as introduced, has a total fiscal impact of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

 None

 

