 HB 71 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0042

 06/08

 

HOUSE BILL 71

 

AN ACT relative to school district emergency special meetings.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Boehm, Hills. 20; Rep. T. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. McLean, Hills. 44

 

COMMITTEE: Education

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill prohibits the superior court from allowing special school meetings for specified reasons.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0042

 06/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to school district emergency special meetings.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 New Subparagraph; School Meetings; Raising Money at Special Meeting. Amend RSA 197:3, I by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following new subparagraph:

 (d) The court shall not allow a special meeting if the emergency involves any of the following:

 (1) A warrant article that was voted down at the regular meeting.

 (2) A contract that was voted down at the regular meeting, including a contract modified after the regular meeting.

 (3) Any item in the budget that was not approved at the regular meeting.

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

