 HB 78 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0008

 11/05

 

HOUSE BILL 78

 

AN ACT relative to certificates of title and drivers' licenses for members of the United States foreign service.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Rep. Crawford, Carr. 4; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Nelson, Carr. 5

 

COMMITTEE: Transportation

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill clarifies the circumstances under which certain New Hampshire residents in the United States foreign service may apply for or renew certificates of title and drivers' licenses.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0008

 11/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to certificates of title and drivers' licenses for members of the United States foreign service.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Certificates of Title and Registration of Vehicles; Reciprocity for Nonresidents. Amend RSA 261:45-a, I to read as follows:

 I. Any resident of this state who is on active duty to the armed forces of the United States, or who is employed by the State Department or other agency of the United States government shall not be considered as having lost residence when the sole reason for the person's absence is compliance with military or naval orders or federal agency orders [that require deployment outside of the United States]. 

 2 New Paragraph; Drivers' Licenses; Members of Armed Services; Spouses; Residency. Amend RSA 263:5-b by inserting after paragraph II the following new paragraph:

 III. For the purposes of this chapter, the spouse, domestic partner and dependents of any resident of this state on active duty in the armed forces of the Unites States, or the spouse, domestic partner or dependents of any employee of the State Department or other agency of the United States government, accompanying their spouse, domestic partner or dependents on an assignment abroad, may elect to register as a New Hampshire resident if the spouse or domestic partner married a New Hampshire resident when deployed on federal government or military travel orders.

 3 Drivers' Licenses; Expiration of Licenses. Amend RSA 263:11, III(a) to read as follows:

 (a) A person who, at the time of license expiration, is deployed on active duty in the armed forces of the United States or serving in the national guard outside the state of New Hampshire, is a federal employee assigned to a location outside the United States, or is the spouse of any such person accompanying his or her spouse during the deployment, service, or assignment, may renew his or her New Hampshire license by mail, provided the person has a computerized image on file with the division. A New Hampshire resident deployed on federal orders from an overseas duty station to a domestic duty station outside of New Hampshire may also convert an out-of-state license if and when that individual deploys overseas following such domestic assignment, provided the person has a computerized image on file with the division. 

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

