 HB 85 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0211

 05/08

 

HOUSE BILL 85

 

AN ACT relative to using Atlantic Standard Time in New Hampshire.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Yokela, Rock. 33; Rep. Yakubovich, Merr. 24; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37; Rep. Schultz, Merr. 18; Rep. Hill, Merr. 3

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill provides that New Hampshire will use Atlantic Standard Time throughout the calendar year if Massachusetts and Maine also move to Atlantic Standard Time.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0211

 05/08

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to using Atlantic Standard Time in New Hampshire.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Standard Time; Change to Atlantic Standard Time. Amend RSA 21:36 to read as follows:

 21:36 Standard Time. The standard time within the state, except as hereinafter provided, shall be [based on the mean astronomical time of the seventy-fifth degree of longitude west from Greenwich, known and designated by the federal statute as "Eastern Standard Time." At 2 o'clock ante-meridian of the second Sunday in March of each year, the standard time in this state shall be advanced one hour, at 2 o'clock ante-meridian of the first Sunday in November of each year, the standard time in this state shall, by the retarding of one hour, be made to coincide with the astronomical time hereinbefore described as Eastern Standard Time, so that between the second Sunday in March at 2 o'clock ante-meridian and the first Sunday in November at 2 o'clock ante-meridian in each year the standard time in this state shall be one hour in advance of the United States Standard Time] known and designated by the federal statute as Atlantic Standard Time. In all laws, statutes, orders, decrees, rules, and regulations relating to the time of performance by any officer or department of this state, or of any county, city, town, or district thereof, or relating to the time in which any rights accrue or determine, or within which any act shall or shall not be performed by any person subject to the jurisdiction of this state, or of any county, city, town, or district thereof, and in all contracts or choses in action made or to be performed in this state, it shall be understood and intended that the time shall be as set forth in this section. 

 2 Application to the United States Department of Transportation. Within 180 days of the adoption of similar legislation by the states of Maine and Massachusetts, or on the date specified for similar action by either the state of Maine or Massachusetts, whichever is earlier, the governor shall petition the United States Secretary of Transportation to move the state of New Hampshire to the Atlantic Time Zone.

 3 Contingency. Section 1 of this act shall take effect on the first July 1 after section 2 takes effect or the effective date specified by similar action by either the state of Maine or Massachusetts, whichever is earlier. Section 2 of this act shall take effect on the date that the states of Massachusetts and Maine enact similar legislation moving from the Eastern Time Zone to the Atlantic Time Zone. If Massachusetts and Maine do not adopt such legislation, sections 1 and 2 of this act shall not take effect.

 4 Effective Date. 

 I. Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall take effect as provided in section 3 of this act.

 II. The remainder of this act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

