 HB 95-FN - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0072

 08/04

 

HOUSE BILL 95-FN

 

AN ACT relative to milk pasteurization.

 

SPONSORS: Rep. Allard, Merr. 21; Rep. Marsh, Carr. 8; Rep. Aron, Sull. 7; Rep. Woodcock, Carr. 2; Rep. Steven Smith, Sull. 11; Rep. Deshaies, Carr. 6; Rep. A. Lekas, Hills. 37

 

COMMITTEE: Environment and Agriculture

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill allows for the sale of products made with raw milk in certain circumstances.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0072

 08/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to milk pasteurization.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 License Required; Exemptions. Amend RSA 184:84, V to read as follows:

 V. A milk producer-distributor who daily produces for sale less than 20 gallons of raw milk or processes less than 20 gallons of raw milk into cheese aged at least 60 days, yogurt, cream, butter, ice cream, frozen yogurt, [or] kefir, or any other product containing raw milk shall not require a milk producer-distributor license, provided these products are offered as direct sales from the producer-distributor's own farm, farm stand, or at a farmers' market to the food consumer within the state of New Hampshire only. Ice cream, frozen yogurt, and frozen desserts produced and sold under this paragraph shall be packaged in containers no larger than 6 fluid ounces and shall be marked with an expiration date 30 days from the date of manufacture. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

 

LBA

 21-0072

 9/30/20

 

HB 95-FN- FISCAL NOTE

AS INTRODUCED

 

AN ACT relative to milk pasteurization.

 

FISCAL IMPACT:

 The Legislative Budget Assistant has determined that this legislation, as introduced, has a total fiscal impact of less than $10,000 in each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2024.

 

AGENCIES CONTACTED:

 None

 

