 SB 28 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0984

 04/11

 

SENATE BILL 28

 

AN ACT naming a courtroom in the second circuit courthouse in Plymouth in honor of Judge Edwin W. Kelly.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Rep. Suzanne Smith, Graf. 8; Rep. Weston, Graf. 8; Rep. Gordon, Graf. 9; Rep. Fellows, Graf. 8; Rep. Lynn, Rock. 7

 

COMMITTEE: Judiciary

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill renames a courtroom in the second circuit courthouse in Plymouth in honor of Judge Edwin W. Kelly.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0984

 04/11

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT naming a courtroom in the second circuit courthouse in Plymouth in honor of Judge Edwin W. Kelly.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Second Circuit Courthouse; Courtroom 1 Named in Honor of Judge Edwin W. Kelly. Courtroom 1 at the second circuit courthouse in the town of Plymouth is hereby renamed the Edwin W. Kelly Courtroom in honor of Judge Edwin W. Kelly who is retiring after 35 years of service to the New Hampshire judicial system, most of which was as an administrative justice in the district and circuit courts. Judge Kelly has worked diligently throughout his career to ensure fair and efficient access to justice to all people. 

 2 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

