 SB 33 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0922

 04/05

 

SENATE BILL 33

 

AN ACT relative to Native American name restoration.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Watters, Dist 4; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Sen. Perkins Kwoka, Dist 21; Sen. Kahn, Dist 10; Rep. Sofikitis, Hills. 34; Rep. Schultz, Merr. 18; Rep. P. Schmidt, Straf. 19; Rep. Horrigan, Straf. 6

 

COMMITTEE: Executive Departments and Administration

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill authorizes cities and towns to name or rename locations or geographic features in the Abenaki language; requires the commission on Native American affairs to assist cities, towns, and the state when requested in determining historic or otherwise appropriate Abenaki language names for locations and geographic features; and requires that the commission on resources and development act as the state contact for the federal government for state naming issues.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0922

 04/05

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to Native American name restoration.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Findings. The general court finds that the commission on Native American affairs established in RSA 12-A:14-a is critical to recognizing the historic and cultural contributions of Native Americans to New Hampshire, and the promotion and strengthening of Native American heritage. Therefore, the general court finds that Native American place names are a rich legacy that ought to be valued and visible, and as such, the general court supports local and state initiatives to restore and assign Native American names to places and geographic features.

 2 New Subparagraph; Department of Cultural and Natural Resources; Commission on Native American Affairs. Amend RSA 12-A:14-a, VI by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following new subparagraph:

 (d) Assist municipalities and the state when requested in determining historic or otherwise appropriate Abenaki language names for locations and geographic features. The commission shall consult with the division of historical resources and the council on resources and development established in RSA 162-C in its capacity as the state of New Hampshire's geographic names authority, as necessary. Nothing in this subparagraph shall affect the legislative authority over naming pursuant to RSA 4:43.

 3 New Section; Powers and Duties of Towns; Native American Name Restoration. Amend RSA 31 by inserting after section 39-e the following new section:

 31:39-f Native American Name Restoration. The governing body of a town, after consultation with the commission on Native American affairs established in RSA 12-A:14-a to determine the historic or otherwise appropriate Abenaki language name for a location or geographic feature situated in the town, may name or rename such location or a geographic feature in the Abenaki language.

 4 New Paragraph; Powers of City Councils; Bylaws and Ordinances; Native American name Restoration. Amend RSA 47:17 by inserting after paragraph XIX the following new paragraph:

 XX. Native American Name Restoration. The governing body of a city, after consultation with the commission on Native American affairs established in RSA 12-A:14-a to determine the historic or otherwise appropriate Abenaki language name for a location or geographic feature situated in the city, may name or rename such location or a geographic feature in the Abenaki language.

 5 New Paragraph; Council on Resources and Development; Responsibilities; Geographic Naming Authority. Amend RSA 162-C:2 by inserting after paragraph XI the following new paragraph:

 XI-a. Act as the New Hampshire geographic names authority which shall be the state contact for the United States Board on Geographic Names, United States Department of the Interior; and 

 6 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

