 SB 37 - AS INTRODUCED

 

 

2021 SESSION

 21-0882

 06/04

 

SENATE BILL 37

 

AN ACT relative to warning label requirements for marijuana products dispensed in alternative treatment centers.

 

SPONSORS: Sen. Gannon, Dist 23; Sen. D'Allesandro, Dist 20; Sen. Ward, Dist 8; Rep. M. Pearson, Rock. 34; Sen. Giuda, Dist 2; Sen. Prentiss, Dist 5; Rep. Weyler, Rock. 13

 

COMMITTEE: Commerce

 

-----------------------------------------------------------------

 

ANALYSIS

 

 This bill requires the department of health and human services to adopt rules that include certain specific information on marijuana product labels dispensed in alternative treatment centers.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

 

Explanation: Matter added to current law appears in bold italics.

 Matter removed from current law appears [in brackets and struckthrough.]

 Matter which is either (a) all new or (b) repealed and reenacted appears in regular type.

 21-0882

 06/04

 

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

 

In the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Twenty One

 

AN ACT relative to warning label requirements for marijuana products dispensed in alternative treatment centers.

 

Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court convened:

 

 1 Findings. The general court recognizes that the side effects and risks of marijuana use on the human body have advanced to a point that requires the department of health and human services to update agency rules on packaging and labeling requirements for marijuana products dispensed in alternative treatment centers. No detailed side effects or risks of use exist on current warning labels. 

 2 Use of Cannabis for Therapeutic Purposes; Rules. Amend RSA 126-X:6, III(a)(9) to read as follows:

 (9) Labeling standards. 

 (A) Labels shall include a statement that the product has not been analyzed or approved by the FDA, is not certified to be free of contaminants, that there is limited detailed information on the side effects of using the product, and that there may be serious associated health risks. 

 (B) Labels shall also state "Do not drive or operate heavy machinery when under the influence of this product. KEEP THIS PRODUCT AWAY FROM CHILDREN”; and 

 (C) Labels shall include side effects and use risks published by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Family Physicians. They shall include but not be limited to: psychosis and schizophrenia, depression, anxiety, suicide, increased blood pressure, increased respiratory rates, cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, worsening of glaucoma, cognitive impairment, addiction, allergic reactions, accidental poisoning and coma in children, preterm births to pregnant women, and impacts on fetal brain development.

 3 New Paragraph; Use of Cannabis for Therapeutic Purposes; Duties. Amend RSA 132:2 by inserting after paragraph XI the following new paragraph:

 XII. Prepare, in conjunction with the bureau of alcohol and drug services and the division of public health services, a brochure and a poster which provides information relative to the known side effects and risks of marijuana use which shall be posted in a conspicuous location and available to the public in all therapeutic cannabis dispensary locations pursuant to RSA 126-X:8.

 4 Effective Date. This act shall take effect 60 days after its passage.

